TITLE: Client "Ma", Session February 05, 2014: Client discusses the role of cutting as a harmful coping mechanism.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses the role of cutting as a harmful coping mechanism.
CLIENT: It’s sort of astonishing the amount of snow, like collected on me as I walked over here, like it doesn’t take very long to see white all over. So Philip Seymour Hoffman died, as you know. Everybody is sort of talking about addiction and I’m sort of thinking about it. [00:01:09]
THERAPIST: One minute, one thing you’re kind of saying about it is that it disturbs you, or makes you feel kind of anxious that you don’t feel all that in control of it. [00:06:17]
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. I feel like I don’t really understand that well why I do it, and I sort of, and part of that is that I think that like the reasons change, or like it’s not just one thing. A lot of days I will sort of say like, “No, I am not going to do this,” and then I will ","P1-N4001B1":"do it. [00:06:59]
THERAPIST: I see, like that it can be a little neglectful of you in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. It sort of sounds like you shouldn’t take into consideration like personal costs to yourself or how you take care of yourself, you shouldn’t take care of yourself.
THERAPIST: My take on it is, I may sound tentative again. [00:14:08]
CLIENT: (Long pause continues) Yeah, I don’t know what to say about that. [00:19:00]
THERAPIST: I guess one feature of the, really upset, like in the way that we’re talking about it a feeling that can go along with that, at least in your head, that other people aren’t going to see it as being real, what you’re upset about.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I’m not sure what extent I see it as real, like or I see it as legitimate. [00:24:00]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at [00:25:45]).
CLIENT: Yeah. Sorry, breathing’s like [00:25:59]
THERAPIST: Maybe I won’t think that like the way that it helps is real, or even that you need to do it on your own? [00:28:00]
CLIENT: I always sort of want to phrase it in my mind as like I don’t have power over this and I can’t make the choice not to, but like that’s really bullshit, and I know it’s bullshit, and I don’t want to be buying into that. I don’t know, I’m pretty ashamed ","P1-N400551":"of the fact that like I know I could choose not to do this, and I do it anyway.
THERAPIST: I guess in a way (inaudible [00:29:34]) really, or ashamed around really wanted to. You know, it’s still unclear whether or not this fits, but I guess part of my thinking in saying there’s something about it that I think is feeling like you’re sort of being treated badly. [00:30:02]
CLIENT: Comfortable with feeling like I’m being treated badly?
THERAPIST: Yeah. What I have in mind is, and I think this is in a way getting less true, but if somebody says something, you’re in a conversation, and somebody’s like unknowingly very insensitive or hurtful or negligent, in a way, the kind of familiarity is painful, but familiar. And I think ","P1-N4005D1":"it can feel safe. [00:31:05]
CLIENT: Yeah, I know what the things are about. [00:31:59]
THERAPIST: Like my thought about the things that it maybe recreates that.
CLIENT: Sort of sense of safety and familiarity in like being treated badly?
THERAPIST: In that particular way, yeah. Like as though somebody sort of yeah, without knowing it, trampling on something that is very hurtful to you.
CLIENT: That makes sense. [00:33:05]
THERAPIST: Yes, that’s absolutely true. It’s funny, too, eating crossed my mind too, before when we were talking about it, and I don’t know, maybe those things like to be, is something you often really—
CLIENT: I mean, like when I talk to like Heather Kate about her eating disorder, like it’s just exactly the same thing. Well not exactly the same thing, but like they intersect a lot. [00:35:00]
THERAPIST: She’s like sort of more interactive type?
CLIENT: Started out as bulimia and moved into anorexia. So like when I, when she and I were close, she was bulimic, but like I didn’t know about it for the first couple years. But yeah. [00:35:59]
THERAPIST: Yeah, that’s good.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I wasn’t, like she and I didn’t really, we’d sort of gotten distant when we got to college, and it was like by the time I knew how bad things had been they were over, but like things were really bad. I’m pretty sure she almost died a couple times.
THERAPIST: From being really underweight?
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:37:00]
THERAPIST: I think that for a lot of people with eating disorders, this is just very anecdotal, they’re often like one or more important people who are very controlling and there’s a sense in like the family environment that there’s a lot that sort of people kind of know but that’s ","P1-N400871":"not being talked about in this very like kind of, like there’s no air in the room sort of way.
CLIENT: No, then they feel (inaudible at [00:39:39]), right?
THERAPIST: And I don’t see either of those, really in your history. I mean, there are issues, but not those particular ones.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: And obviously I don’t mean to say like clearly, how you felt about your body and those that were interesting. [00:40:02]
CLIENT: Yeah, no, no, no, I know. Thanks. That’s actually really helpful, yeah. Yeah, I mean, Heather Kate’s mom is exactly what you described. And also having an eating disorder, but like Heather Kate doesn’t go home any more if she can help it.
THERAPIST: I guess I’m thinking particularly of people that more like kind of interact with your type. [00:41:02]
CLIENT: I’m not sure whether that makes it worse or better, self-injury. But I feel like the ultimate risk is low. Like it’s not something I’m going to screw up and like accidentally kill myself.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But it sort of makes it feel like less dangerous, so easier not to make myself not do it. So it’s like from like a social embarrassment perspective, the damage has already been done. Like I’m just not going to the beach any more, that’s just how it’s going to work. [00:42:07]
THERAPIST: I (inaudible at [00:42:45]) sad and upset about it. I mean, among other things. [00:42:59]
CLIENT: I don’t know, I’m sort of disgusted with myself.
THERAPIST: We should stop.
CLIENT: Thank you.