TITLE: Client "Ma", Session February 04, 2014: Client discusses the inconsistent nature and credibility of their ever-changing emotions.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses the inconsistent nature and credibility of their ever-changing emotions.
CLIENT: Hey.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: I think things are going to get better.
THERAPIST: Good, good.
CLIENT: I feel rested this morning, which is a change from the past couple of weeks, and I’m sort of eating more normally, which is good. I sort of feel like when I’m depressed I like, food tastes a little bit different. I don’t know if that makes sense, but I think I don’t, ","P1-N400131":"it’s hard for me to eat at mealtimes, but then I just really want lots of like desserts, basically, or something like carbs. [00:00:57]
THERAPIST: Well good.
CLIENT: I don’t know if you’ve been reading the, there’s been like a couple of articles recently about Woody Allen since, so like his adopted daughter wrote a piece for The New York Times like, “Yeah, no, actually he really did molest me when I was seven, like that was a real ","P1-N400191":"thing. I wasn’t lying about that.” And then there’s like a push back on her, and then some people pointing out, like hey guys, it’s a lot more common for children to be sexually molested than it is for them to lie about it, so maybe we should, you know, rather than pursuing that ","P1-N400192":"he is innocent, maybe we should presume that she is innocent. [00:00:57]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I would say that’s pretty long analysis.
CLIENT: That’s good to hear. It feels long to me, but you know,
THERAPIST: Yeah, that’s pretty long. [00:04:01]
THERAPIST: Like a manuscript that he’s considering?
CLIENT: Yeah, he’s editing his thesis, and his, I made a joke when he was talking about how like finding a reference to confirm like one footnote had taken him all day and I made a joke like, “You should just let it go, nobody’s going to see it,” and I’m like, “No ","P1-N4002D1":"one will notice it.” He really didn’t think it was funny, like really didn’t. So that might take another six months or so. [00:07:57]
THERAPIST: So you would have to dumb it down for the scientists?
CLIENT: Well, I wouldn’t go that far. I mean, it’s not dumbing it down, it’s just like different specialty, specialized lexicon. But I don’t know. [00:09:11]
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And they can park there whenever, so like they can come down at night and like, I told Brett, that was better than a rectory. But so they all live far away. [00:11:00]
THERAPIST: In a way I feel like it would be kind of nice not to be her this morning in that, like it might help you feel like a little more distant from how bad you’ve been feeling, or you’re here to think about it, can feel a little imposing or hard to know what to say, you said. [00:16:01]
CLIENT: I mean, it’s hard to know what to say, but I’m not sure that, I don’t know. I don’t think so, like I don’t—
THERAPIST: I don’t mean that you like feel unbalanced, don’t want to be here, I don’t mean like that.
CLIENT: So I guess like, what I’m mostly worried about sort of applies to you, but also applies to James and like, I guess it’s just you and James, but that like where I’m anxious is in feeling like I need to, I feel like if I just come in and sort of like chatty and normal that like ","P1-N4004D1":"that will somehow make like the last week not count. [00:17:18]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I imagine the feeling was like I wouldn’t believe you and you wouldn’t be credible.
CLIENT: Yes, yeah. But I mean, it’s just like I feel like I always worry that you know, I feel like I just switch so abruptly between like the weeks of being or I don’t [00:20:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah, one way one day and another way the next?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah.
THERAPIST: With no very clear rhyme or reason, and that I would, I would be like thrown off by that?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. You know, I worry about it more mostly for James. Yeah, I think I work much harder to sort of present a continuous front to him, but I feel like it’s been more important. [00:22:07]
THERAPIST: Well there is that.
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, because obviously you couldn’t handle that. [00:23:04]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I, on the phone the worry for me is, maybe it’s really more for James. I bet he’d be overwhelmed by that.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Not knowing what he was going to get, or if he was going to get—
CLIENT: Yeah, and I sort of, I feel like the inevitable consequence of that is like you drive people away. [00:25:03]
THERAPIST: Well I’m tentative about this, but one like alternative view to that is actually that the trajectory of your ups and downs often make sense.
CLIENT: You just sounded so tentative saying it.
THERAPIST: I’m not sure what it was that has sort of pulled you out of, or at least away, somewhat away from what you’ve been feeling the last few weeks. [00:29:06]
CLIENT: Yeah, (inaudible at [00:31:00]).
THERAPIST: It’s about being crazy. I mean, like being inconsistent about organization or being angry can be often sound like your dad where it kind of inconsistent about sort of being crazy, sounds more like, has to feel like more with you and your mom. Anyway yeah, it’s like there’s ","P1-N400851":"something. It sort of makes sense to me that it would seem like more plausible to you in a way because it wasn’t because something that happened that I’m feeling better or an interaction. It’s more like I’m just being crazy like my mom.
CLIENT: I don’t, so it’s, I don’t, I don’t think like that’s the move I’m trying to make. I think it’s more like, I think it’s less that I think there’s no reason behind it. [00:32:14]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And that, I don’t know. I mean, it also like, it doesn’t just feel like things are on an upward trend. Like it feels like it’s just gone.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And like it stopped. [00:33:00]
THERAPIST: Because it’s like whoa, now you see it, now you don’t.
CLIENT: Yeah. So, but I feel like, but I feel like in talking to you about it, I don’t want to sound like, no, I just feel better, it’s gone. Like I don’t want to say that so I sort of present it as like, I think things are a little better. I think that, you know, like I think this ","P1-N400971":"is coming, like I’m coming up out of it, as opposed to like, no, I’m just fine now. So yeah.
THERAPIST: So are you saying partly that you feel kind of ashamed?
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so. I hadn’t really thought about it that way, but yeah. [00:34:00]
THERAPIST: That, I mean, that I (inaudible at [00:34:05]) is a bit mysterious, and as you imagine to me, is not necessarily all that credible. It’s gone.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like a magic trick.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And if you, another thought that came to my mind is like you know, if you’re a kid who’s having trouble in school, either academic, I guess, or behaviorally or whatever and then just comes home and tells the parent, oh actually, everything’s fine now. The teacher said it ","P1-N400A51":"was fine, I brought all my work in, I’ve been, you know, behaving well in class. [00:35:02]
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, on one hand like I don’t trust that. Like I don’t, it feels like it’s just gone, but I don’t actually believe that that’s the case until like, but I also worry that like if I spend too much time being like where did it go, then it will just come ","P1-N400A91":"back, and yeah.
THERAPIST: It seems to me there’s also a subtle split in it that, I don’t know, somehow seems important where before we kind of stop and say wait a minute and say let’s talk and look at it, I think you own more of the well that’s just how it is, and you give me more of the oh ","P1-N400AB1":"my gosh, Dr. Lee (sp), isn’t going to believe or is going to think I’m crazy. [00:36:08]
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:37:01]
THERAPIST: Do you know if it’s, if it, when it hit you? Was it after what I just said or was it like when you started to explain to me?
CLIENT: Yeah, when I started like.
THERAPIST: I see. Like how actually it’s gone.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:38:00]
THERAPIST: Maybe that made you feel kind of exposed, like you were telling in a way what seems like the less reasonable version of the story.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, I think I just don’t, I don’t know how you’re going to react. I think I am anxious that like [00:39:01]
THERAPIST: I guess you feel in some way like maybe you played a trick on me?
CLIENT: Yeah, something like that. But it’s also like I was really, really scared and I don’t really want you to tell me that there wasn’t any reason for that. So, but like it was foolish of me to be so scared. [00:40:59]
THERAPIST: I guess those are a quality of undoing to it, where there’s a way that feels like you’re, it feels to you like you’re undoing (inaudible at [00:42:08]). [00:42:08]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: In a sense it sounds like partly your, partly mine kind of revised version of what happened where you’re tricking me and I’m not going to believe it, and—
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess so. [00:42:59]
THERAPIST: Well, so what happened to you and you’re upset about things that matter. And even if it wasn’t quite clear how, I think, if that makes sense. [00:45:03]
CLIENT: Like (inaudible at [00:45:23]).
THERAPIST: I have, and I’ve heard of it.
CLIENT: It was a good movie. It’s really interesting. I don’t think I’ve seen it since the ECTs, so I have to go back and watch that, but yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and that’s like sure, in a way you don’t want the pain, but in another way it’s really important. I don’t know if that’s what you’re saying, or—
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [00:45:59]
THERAPIST: We should stop.