TITLE: Client "Ma", Session April 09, 2014: Client discusses her complicated feelings towards senior citizens; including her mother and grandmother.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses her complicated feelings towards senior citizens; including her mother and grandmother.
THERAPIST: Okay. I’m not fiddling around this thing.
CLIENT: Our plant outside is, it looks healthy it just wants to be growing somewhere else. [Laughs] Honestly there was a bunch of large houseplants around, which I sort of surreptitiously watered over the last month. The kids really like watering the plants. Sharon (ph) of course wants to carry a big ","P1-N4000D1":"thing of water and is insistent that she carry it by herself, [laughs] which I mean water is spilled on the floor but it’s okay. And she’ll stand and she’ll point at the spill and she says pill, pill for spill and insists that we clean it up right away and I say dude, I don’t care. [00:01:46]
THERAPIST: Than 80 years ago?
CLIENT: Yes. [Pause] It’s frustrating and timing-delayed. For someone who is as just very intelligent and quick as he is, he doesn’t really adjust to new ideas at all, ever. Yes, so I at least not about the things that he cares about. Yes, so I don’t, I don’t think he’s ","P1-N400211":"really got it in him to understand that the department that he went through is not the same as the department that I went through. I don’t, he sort of hears me out but I don’t we have to have the same conversation every time because it doesn’t work for him. And he’ll sort of ","P1-N400212":"hear me out and then he’ll sort of go back to talking about his teachers and what it was like when he was going through. [00:11:49]
THERAPIST: When he gets better.
CLIENT: Yes. It might actually give him the self-confidence to take that plunge. To know there’ll be back-up. [Pause] I can’t see my parents ever entering the assisted living. Probably my mom will eventually but I don’t know. The women in my family, my mom’s side of the family, ","P1-N4002B1":"they live forever. And they’re healthy and independent forever I think. Yes, my great grandmother was 105 when she died. That might be an exaggeration but she was pretty old. And, yes, my grandmother I think is still living alone sort of doing her thing. [00:17:52]
THERAPIST: Because they die or leave the hospital?
CLIENT: Mostly they leave the hospital. And I think it’s something that he’s only just realizing that the process of being in a relationship with somebody while they’re dying, going through that with them is the thing he’s really, he’s good at and likes. And so to have ","P1-N400331":"to not be able to be with people and that all the way through that, to sort of develop a relationship with the understanding that it’s not going to be long term I think is really hard for him.
THERAPIST: I see because people either go home or go to hospice for special therapy.
CLIENT: Yes, yes. And I think it probably has to do with the types of places that he’s working in. But I’m sorry I think he should work in a hospice community but that’s me. And then he gets into fights with his supervisor because, over ecumenical based stuff, because they don’t ","P1-N400371":"want him to be too Episcopalian except when it’s something they like. [00:20:27]
THERAPIST: How do you mean?
CLIENT: Just that I think the integrity of one’s traditions are important but I also think that the situation he’s in is one of having to be very adaptable, to respond to different people’s needs. And he’s really good at doing that with patients but I suspect he’s not as ","P1-N4003D1":"good at doing that with sort of other chaplains and people who are in charge of him. And so yes, there’s a point at which, I’m not in there so I’m just listening to what he’s saying, but I think there’s a point at which that, those conversations or those debates happen ","P1-N4003D2":"instead of the work that you’re there to do. [00:22:34]
THERAPIST: You mean online?
CLIENT: Sorry I’m not very clear here. I think I feel like, I feel like by the time we have a satisfactory answer to how we should relate to the Internet there will be another generation of people who use it completely differently. [Laughs] I don’t know. James was saying yesterday that I ","P1-N400431":"was expressing surprise at I’m always surprised when people haven’t heard of XKCD because it’s just something that everybody that I know within five years older or younger than I am just reads, even prominent science people, everybody reads it. And Kim (ph) had never heard of it. [00:24:15]
THERAPIST: That follows.
CLIENT: Which means that now I have to sort of move into my communicating-with-people-who-aren’t-on-the-same-page-as-me mode, which is not the point. In a holy unsurprising turn of events I’m the only person under the age of 40 in this Christian formation group. And I feel a responsibility ","P1-N4004B1":"to my generation. I don’t like that. [00:26:41]
THERAPIST: This is not a new thought.
CLIENT: No. There’s another XKCD. There was a whole list of media quotes about the increasing disconnection of people who pay attention to this new technology all the time instead of talking to each other and it was right after newspapers became a big (ph) thing. [Laughs]
THERAPIST: You’re also somewhat, I think today, a bit frustrated with old people.
CLIENT: [Laughing] A little bit, yes. I get frustrated when I saw over that.
THERAPIST: They need to get it. They get the wrong things.
CLIENT: It’s always frustrating to me to realize that I can only actually be half of a conversation. [Laughs] I don’t know if I’m not, if I don’t feel like I’m being heard by somebody I always think well I’m just not saying it right. I just have to claim it in a way ","P1-N400611":"that they can hear. And I’m pretty good at that but sometimes that doesn’t work. I can’t always do that. [00:33:47]
THERAPIST: I do wonder if there are things that you are saying to me that I am not yet getting. [Pause] I don’t mean that those are, I’m not literally getting the sense of what you say; I think I am. But there’s something about how you’re feeling and where you’re coming ","P1-N400631":"from that I’m not picking up on or I haven’t quite put my finger on or something. [00:34:51]
CLIENT: I don’t know. Nothing comes to mind. Well this is frustrating to me to be a young person still. I don’t actually feel that young, I really don’t. But I don’t know. I should go back to teaching. I don’t get in the middle of that. [00:35:32]
THERAPIST: Like [inaudible at 00:40:34] flying the, what is it, Black Oak (ph) sort of connection speaking in the real world or -
CLIENT: Apathy and selfishness against people? Yes.
THERAPIST: Rather than looking at the innocence that you have?
CLIENT: Yes. [Pause] It’s sort of surprising to hear that James, or not James, that Geoffrey had moved into a living home. I just, in some ways I don’t think of him as being elderly at all. In some ways but it’s not because I think of him as being young it’s more like he’s ","P1-N400791":"never been young. He was 50 when he was 15 probably. He has not changed at all in the time that I’ve known him, which I’ve known him since I was 14 so. He’s always been about to get a dog. [Laughs.] I really don’t want Tourette’s (ph) [00:43:38].
THERAPIST: It’s that kind of disengagement, is that what it is? [00:44:20]
CLIENT: I guess it seems to me like always being on the verge of some change and never actually getting there. Thinking of yourself as growing and not actually changing.
THERAPIST: We should stop now. [00:46:13]