TITLE: Client "Ma", Session March 19, 2014: Client discusses feeling bullied into having to show their cutting scars at a preschool pool day.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses feeling bullied into having to show their cutting scars at a preschool pool day.
CLIENT: Maybe Friday would better. So Selena’s (ph) preschool is at like, Burnley boys and girls go to this pool and everything. And so the preschool for a month is having a swimming day with the kids, which is a nice idea except each kid has to have a parent or an adult to come take them to it. ","P1-N4000B1":"And so that means that all these kids’ parents have to decide whether to take off work to do this. Selena loves swimming. It’s her thing. [1:14] So Kim (ph) asked me if I would do it.
THERAPIST: So the moms can go sooner. (pause) What is it that’s really bad about like -?
CLIENT: Not being there. It’s like, I’m there and I sort of feel like, why am I not the one going in the pool with Christian r. I feel like everyone is thinking that. [3:33] It would be a problem anyway, ‘cause like, Sharon wouldn’t be allowed to come with them.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So you’d have to be someplace with Sharon. That’s true. (pause)
CLIENT: Last week Sharon did okay. I didn’t have that high hopes of her staying at one place with not very much to do for an hour and half, or I guess it was just an hour. But she did okay. [4:46] I brought distractions this week since I actually remembered. (pause)
THERAPIST: One other thing I don’t get. Why do you have to be there the whole time instead of just at the end at the handoff?
CLIENT: They’re actually not giving a good reason for that, other than that. There’s not really anywhere fun to hang out. But yeah, Sharon was like – there’s a bench with some kids books and I might steer towards it to play. [5:56] It’s a good question. (pause) So I dreamed ","P1-N400191":"last night that – I don’t know what it was, but like, somebody was talking to me. Some random person at a party was talking to me about a job that I had held some time ago and said that like, I got fired from that job, because they thought I was stealing.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I’ve seen it.
CLIENT: I have a little bit of a chip on my shoulder about it.
THERAPIST: About Littleton. (pause) I’m wondering if there’s something about hanging out at the pool that feels a little like delaying. [14:50] And the sort of prospect of at the moms in Burnley seeing your scars.
CLIENT: I already feel weird around therm. I feel weird around the parents, and I feel weird around the other nannies. I don’t know. I don’t feel weird around Kim and Frank, but like, I don’t – And you know, I feel bad because everybody feels like they’re being bullied ","P1-N4002B1":"in this situation, let’s be honest, except for the kids. Nobody wants to like, wear a bathing suit when you’ve got a preschooler. So you’re not feeling good about your body anyway in March in this like, dreary YMCA pool while you take off work [16:24]
THERAPIST: I think maybe there’s something different. Like, I imagine Kim and the other parents who are there may feel annoyed or hassled or frustrated that the preschool is doing this. But I bet they don’t feel bullied. And like, when you’ve got a kid in preschool it’s kind ","P1-N4002F1":"of the thing you do. There’s a lot of things like that at most preschools and elsewhere in your life if you have a three-year-old. [18:29] So like, tired, resentful, frustrated. Sure. Bullying? I don’t think so.
CLIENT: That’s totally something I’d do. [20:36] (pause) I don’t k now what to say about that. [20:21] (pause) [22:29] Littleton is fine, ‘cause like, theoretically yes, it was just the kids. But it definitely feels like everyone in that town had it in for me. [23:21] (pause) ","P1-N400331":"[24:22] I think what I’m most pissed off about in the situation is that like, I had to tell Kim about the scars anyway. Like, that was something I was not planning on sharing. And that I sort of got backed into a corner about. You know, I could have just said, I’m not comfortable doing this.
THERAPIST: Maybe you’re mad about that, too. Not necessarily at me and the way it doesn’t sound like you’re mad at Kim, necessarily.
CLIENT: Yeah. Not like I look at it, and of course, it’s not an unreasonable thing to ask. That makes sense. It’s part of childcare. But like, I just, (inaudible at 29:01) [29:17] (pause) I think the thing with Jenny and the job in Littleton is that like, I’m sort of in the same positioner ","P1-N400391":"where I either have to – you know, I can like – she knows that I’m from the area. So I like, congratulate here and jump on that train. Or I can say, actually I had really bad experiences from there and I think it’s a terrible place and I don’t think you should be there. ","P1-N400392":"[31:16] You know, and just in having to make that choice, I feel like somehow it’s wrong. (pause) It is a small town, but it doesn’t mean it will leave me alone. [32:12] (pause) [33:23] I’m just grumpy that I have to cut the session short in order that I not be late for this thing. [34:21]
THERAPIST: It’s about quarter after.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Would it make a difference to you to come at 3:45 instead of 4:30 on Friday?
CLIENT: So, I have a friend in town. I don’t know. I think she’s – I think that would be better.
THERAPIST: Three forty-five.
CLIENT: I think so, but I don’t know. I think she’s making plans to have tea with a friend while I’m doing this. But I don’t know. I don’t think it would make much difference. Sorry.
THERAPIST: That’s okay. I’m kind of showing this at you at the last minute. Do you just want to send me a text later today?
CLIENT: That would be great. Okay.