TITLE: Client "Ju", Session December 17, 2012: Client discusses her living situation and her anxiety about her landlord.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses her living situation and her anxiety about her landlord.
CLIENT: So I had a very, very high stress week unexpectedly. Well, not entirely unexpectedly, I guess. I don't know if I've talked about my landlord and his ripping off part of the house.
THERAPIST: Yeah. There's a hole in the house.
CLIENT: Yes, just a big exposed chunk. And Ashby has a door from her bedroom to the outdoors, previously (ph) a porch, and that door has no other stripping. So we can just see, you know, like...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And (inaudible at 00:44)
THERAPIST: Real cold.
CLIENT: It's really cold, though I think it's because the room is small and it can heat up again quickly. So I finally got the city inspector to come out. And she said he needed to fix it but she wasn't sure the stripping on the door but she was trying to get it fixed, the exposed house part. And (inaudible ","P1-N400171":"at 01:18) landlord (inaudible at 01:20) about it. So he decided to stop talking to Ashby and I or communicating to us at all but would tell the people on the first floor what was going on, sort of. So he told them he's doing construction. (inaudible at 01:40) like, waking up and there were just people, ","P1-N400172":"like, tearing at the front of the house.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah, which was really alarming. Also, usually when I sleep I'm in either a (inaudible at 01:59) or just in a t-shirt. So I got up wearing a t-shirt and underwear and I'm like, "Oh god, there are people." And so they're doing this construction next door. And occasionally I've been like, "Oh, ","P1-N4001B1":"right, I should lower blinds because there are people next door who can in the windows." But this was just really (pause), I don't know, like, it was really kind of scary because my landlord Ted is so like, he's super moody and super volatile and had been so angry about us calling the inspector and ","P1-N4001B2":"not, like, I didn't know what he was going to do. But part of me thought, "Well, you know, he's not going to, like what's he going to do? He's just going to, like, yell." But that's also scary. Then I was like, "You know, my landlord and a bunch of other large guys with tools being agitated," like, ","P1-N4001B3":"I just felt I don't know. [00:03:15]
THERAPIST: It wasn't clear that you were unsafe but you felt that way.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You might have been but you might not have been unsafe. That was unclear but you feel (ph) Like you were.
CLIENT: Yeah. Because [part of the thing] (ph) of what made me feel so unsafe is that he acts so erratically that I feel like there's no real way to say like, "Oh, no, he wouldn't..."
THERAPIST: Oh (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. So (pause) but he definitely has some kind of mood disorder because we've seen him, when he was living below, it was just, like, up and down, up and down, up and down. And I know that (inaudible at 04:08) he'll talk about, like, getting (inaudible at 04:12).
THERAPIST: Sorry, (inaudible at 04:14) what?
CLIENT: Getting into, like, a big yelling fight with someone. And he evicted he had these two guys living with him in the summer and he evicted them via a screaming argument and then putting their stuff on the front porch. They didn't actually have a lease, so but, like, the police showed up and ","P1-N4002B1":"his eviction was, like, basically their stuff on the front porch and then a scrawled note saying they're trespassing. So yeah. But then other times he's like, "I love you guys living here. You're so awesome. Never leave." So it's always, like, do you hate us? Do you love us? We don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 05:53) front door?
CLIENT: I wasn't really sure. Well, part of it was I just didn't think I was, like, safe and that they're pulling shingles down.
THERAPIST: Right, so they could fall on your head.
CLIENT: Right, and there was a ladder blocking the door.
THERAPIST: Yeah, right, which leaves you to...
CLIENT: Yeah, and there was, like, probably ankle deep in, like, shingle debris. So I was like, well that's just not safe. You shouldn't walk through the construction.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So there was that but I also was worried that, like, Ted would, like, try to get in an argument with me. He's also tried to get in a couple days previous. He'd come up to the door and was like, "I have to come in. There's been an emergency." You know, I can tell if there's an emergency on the ","P1-N4003D1":"second floor. He's like, "There's been an accident. (inaudible at 06:48) accident I have to investigate. There's some kind of water emergency." Which was really weird and I just said no, you know, there's nothing going on and I wouldn't open the door all the way and I wouldn't let him in. And so that ","P1-N4003D2":"also made me nervous because it was such a weird like, there's been an accident. An accident has been reported to me in your apartment.
THERAPIST: OK, yeah. I was going to ask I wasn't sure if you live on the second floor.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, sorry. I live on the third floor. So he was saying that...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 07:24) through your apartment on the third floor, which I guess wouldn't make any sense anyway.
CLIENT: Nope.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [He asked to view] (ph) your apartment.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was like, "No, this is my apartment. [You're OK] (ph)." And also, just the, like, "It's been reported." (inaudible at 07:40) do anything...
THERAPIST: How could anybody else possibly know what's going on in your apartment, except for your roommate?
CLIENT: Yes, and the downstairs people were working also. Because at first he was like, "There's an accident," and then he progressed to, "There's been some kind of water damage or water accident." So that also made me worried. So basically, like, I kind of left my apartment really abruptly. Like, threw ","P1-N4004D1":"some stuff in my shoulder bag and (inaudible at 08:14).
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, which day is this?
CLIENT: Wednesday. (pause) Tuesday or Wednesday.
THERAPIST: But we met...
CLIENT: (inaudible at 08:30)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 08:36) Monday. I don't know [I did meet] (ph) Wednesday afternoon last week. Like, last week we couldn't reschedule. The week before we (inaudible at 08:46) Friday when you were still sick. And one of those Tuesdays you had to be out but I don't remember if it was this last ","P1-N400571":"week or the week before. Yeah, on the Tuesday. I think it was probably last week.
CLIENT: Yeah, so it was Tuesday or Wednesday. It's Thursday. Yeah.
THERAPIST: [Maybe it's just a fuzzy. I think you got it] (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 09:17)
THERAPIST: Like a little fuzzy (inaudible at 09:21).
CLIENT: It was when we weren't meeting because I was just, like and then I met with my psychiatrist on Friday.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry (inaudible at 09:49) last week.
CLIENT: I know. It would have been really convenient but I didn't know that. (laughter) Like, I was so freaked out but I also felt weird being, like, (pause) (inaudible at 10:16) because I guess I just didn't well, I do feel unsafe but I don't know if that's reasonable or not, I guess? Because my ","P1-N400651":"landlord isn't reasonable. He wanted us to give him a key. He gave us a spare key one time and we didn't want to give it back because we were worried he'd just come in, because he has done that repeatedly. (pause) It was just, I don't know. I really felt like I was in a daze for several days. Like, ","P1-N400652":"I went to physical therapy and then I ended up asking a friend if she could pick me you afterwards and either drive me to my house or go over to her house because I didn't want to have to walk, like I didn't really want to leave my house by myself. I definitely didn't want to return (pause) because ","P1-N400653":"it just felt really (pause) super uncertain and scary and weird. And I ended up Friday morning having a friend's husband pick me up in the morning. Like, I was going to go downtown. (inaudible at 11:54) pick me up and take me to (inaudible at 11:55) because I wanted to have my landlord know what was ","P1-N400654":"going on and didn't want to do it by myself. And also, he doesn't take women very seriously.
THERAPIST: The landlord?
CLIENT: My landlord. And that was also very, like my landlord wouldn't let my friend on the porch to ring the doorbell but my landlord rang the doorbell instead or had someone ring the doorbell.
THERAPIST: Wait, I'm [sort of] (ph) confused.
CLIENT: So my friend came up to the house..
THERAPIST: With you.
CLIENT: Well, he was going to pick me up to drive me somewhere. So I'm inside waiting for him to come in a car. And...
THERAPIST: OK, so you did go back to your apartment on Wednesday?
CLIENT: Yeah, I did at night, like at 5:00.
THERAPIST: OK. And you stayed there Wednesday night and Thursday night and then did you not go out Thursday?
CLIENT: No, I left the house that Thursday as well. I just couldn't [stand it] (ph). So I went, like, to the coffee shop for a while. I hung out with a friend for a while. I just, like, didn't want to be in there.
THERAPIST: Right, and Wednesday you had actually talked to your landlord, which is [especially why] (ph) your friend's husband pick you up.
CLIENT: No, Friday was when I had him pick me up.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, did I say Thursday? (inaudible at 13:23)
CLIENT: Yeah, and so when my friend came by, yeah, he couldn't come on the porch, wasn't allowed to ring the doorbell.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 13:34) he can't come on the porch?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: OK. Like, because they were supposedly (ph) working?
CLIENT: They were.
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: But, you know, (pause) yeah, so they were sort of working...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 13:49)
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. And so when I came...
THERAPIST: Guys, hold up for two seconds so the guy can...
CLIENT: Yeah, ring the doorbell so I can leave. And when I and so I left the apartment. I was like, "What's going on? Why is my friend, like, standing on the lawn?" And my landlord wouldn't look at me. He just sort of turned his back and looked really angry. And I asked, you know, like, [why is this ","P1-N400951":"happening] (ph)? And he was clearly really angry and said he had no idea how long it was going to take. He had no idea when it was going to be done. He just said, "I have no fucking idea." That's all he would say, which also really (pause) yeah.
THERAPIST: That you need it?
CLIENT: Yeah, because it just seems so crazy. Like, why? Like, I sort of have a hard time accepting that all of this was happening (pause) because it's really weird.
THERAPIST: What's really weird?
CLIENT: My landlord. Like, my landlord's behavior.
THERAPIST: OK, you mean you have a hard time accepting your landlord's behaving the way that he was because it's so peculiar?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: And also, I just have a hard time with, like, just kind of everything. Like, his behavior has been so erratic and just so weird. And that he's refusing to talk to me or Ashby is really weird and frustrating. And (inaudible at 16:30) first floor neighbors but not us. And then also, like, being ","P1-N400A71":"in a position where I don't want to be in my house at all during the day and through, like, early evening. Like, twice he was working after 5:00. And then the other thing is that you know, so Ashby and I have been talking about it and Ashby has been talking to people (inaudible at 17:09) but I ended ","P1-N400A72":"being the one who called the inspector, had her come, talked to the inspector, dealt with Ted being there. And I just, like, I don't know. Like Thursday I was telling him (ph), like, I just can't do this anymore. I feel so upset and so worried and anxious and freak out. Like, I don't know what to do. ","P1-N400A73":"And (pause), like, due to circumstance, I'm home so it's not like, "I want you to take a vacation day. Will you take a vacation day?" Like, I'm just home so it's reasonable but...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 18:02) in a way.
CLIENT: In a way. But I just really hate it and the other problem is because, you know, it's like Ashby and I will talk about something and we'll agree on something and then I try to talk to my landlord and, like, sometimes OK, so this is going to happen and (inaudible at 18:30). And then I talk to ","P1-N400AB1":"him and he does something completely different. And so I just end up feeling like whatever I was doing was wrong. Like...
THERAPIST: In a sense like you did the wrong thing?
CLIENT: Yeah, as if I did the wrong thing when I should have done something else. We initially were going to write him a letter and say, like, "Please don't enter our apartment if we're not here. Here is the key." But then I was coming into the apartment and I had gotten the spare key from my friend ","P1-N400AF1":"and he was right there. So I ended up giving it to him right then and there and then Ashby was upset because we had agreed upon writing this letter. And then I was upset that she upset and...
THERAPIST: Sorry I'm yawning a little bit. I'm just (ph) a little tired.
CLIENT: It's OK.
THERAPIST: Well you're (ph) really awfully rattled, obviously, by all this. I mean, it sounds like you're totally freaking out. And, you know, (inaudible at 20:05) in fact, you actually are. Like, however much physical risk there is. Sounds like you feel terribly like you're physically at risk. And ","P1-N400B51":"that, you know, he might attack you at any minute or he might barge in on you at any minute. And you're terrified.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, that's basically I've just been really scared all week.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And this was, like there's always (inaudible at 20:47) that sounds bad but that sounds like the part that's kind of the hardest of that, is the, like, ongoing terror that you feel of being at home. And it sounds like it's mostly worry about him physically assaulting you, basically, ","P1-N400B91":"out of nowhere at any time.
CLIENT: Yeah, both physical assault and just, like, getting in my face in yelling.
THERAPIST: Is Ashby similarly scared?
CLIENT: Sort of. So, like, she's going to work and has something to distract herself with a little bit.
THERAPIST: Sure, and (inaudible at 21:42) the house all day.
CLIENT: Yeah. She is worried her reaction has been somewhat so she more feels like that our landlord it's more like Ashby's reaction is, like, her feelings are hurt so she feels like she told him, like, "This is what I need you to do to fix the house," and then he ignored what she wanted because ","P1-N400C31":"it didn't matter. So she is taking it more as, like, a personal insult and also her reaction is to want to get revenge somehow. So we withheld December rent until he fixed everything and he still hasn't. But Ashby also said she wanted to withhold a portion of the rent or just not pay it because our ","P1-N400C32":"apartment, like, we weren't able to have reasonable use of our apartment for two weeks. And I was talking about it. I'm like, I really am worried that he's going to flip out more. (inaudible at 23:18) 150 dollars. So really not that much. And her response is, "Well, I want to because I'm mad at him ","P1-N400C33":"and, like, I want to make him..."
THERAPIST: Right, like she would (inaudible at 23:33) satisfaction from (inaudible at 23:36).
CLIENT: Yeah, it's basically not (inaudible at 23:39). It's the like, she wants to punish him, [I guess] (ph). And that makes me nervous, like he's going to retaliate. So she's still we talked about it and, you know, she's worried. We're both worried that if he had the key he would come in and I ","P1-N400C71":"don't know, whatever. None of us are looking forward to our apartment being empty while we're away for (ph) Christmas stuff. Especially now that he has a key again and can just come in and do whatever. And whatever is sort of like I don't know. He used the first floor's people shower one time after ","P1-N400C72":"they moved in and their towel. (pause) Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's really weird.
CLIENT: It is. Because when they said that he (ph) thought they're not allowed to use this (ph) shower, I was like, "Oh, whatever. How did you know that?" And the answer was, "The wife was taking a shower and asked her husband where the big bath towels were." He says, "Oh, I just put one out." "I don't ","P1-N400CB1":"see one." And they went into the basement and the towel was there, had been used and was, like I don't know if there's someone taking up residence in the basement also. Like, he has a toothbrush and razor and things down there and some clothes. And there's this big barber chair that he just sits in ","P1-N400CB2":"sometimes. So, they found the used bath towel just kind of on his barber chair.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 25:14) his stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: [You guys have been there] (ph) a while?
CLIENT: Yeah, this is probably I've been there about three years. This will be four years.
THERAPIST: And you don't have a lease?
CLIENT: Yeah. So, we're definitely moving. Like, we (pause) you know, when he was living below so it was a little easier to deal with his weirdness. And also, he's just gotten stranger. Like, using someone's towel and shower is just...
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, yeah, we don't have a lease anymore. It's just month to month. He can't evict us for six months because we made a complaint to the city and we don't want to stay. Like, it's just (inaudible at 26:09)
THERAPIST: This was, like, February 1st?
CLIENT: Probably like February, March. And basically we're not going to be able to leave in January but as soon as we can find a place we're out (inaudible at 26:26).
THERAPIST: Have you been able to sleep?
CLIENT: Not very well. (inaudible at 26:32) but...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 26:35) are like this as well?
CLIENT: Somewhat, yeah. I mean, I just yeah, like (pause) one day I was just so jittery, like, I couldn't sit or think so I ended up taking a Valium, which made me less jittery but also makes me feel really, like, (pause) calm but also kind of disconnected from everything.
THERAPIST: Like detached (ph)?
CLIENT: Yes. So kind of useful, kind of not. Makes it really hard to talk to Kelly about our apartment because I just, like, don't really feel connected to anything. (sighs)
THERAPIST: Your symptoms, like, nightmares or startling or...
CLIENT: Oddly, not nightmares but mostly it's really hard to fall asleep because I feel really keyed up and worried. And then today is actually not bad because it's raining and nobody's not working but, I mean, this whole last week and somewhat on Saturday, because I was (inaudible at 27:56) on Saturday, ","P1-N400EF1":"yeah, I've just been, like, startling and I can't focus or concentrate. Like, I tried. Like, you know, I was like, "I'll go read a book at a coffee shop." Can't concentrate on the book. Went over to a friend's house and hung out but also it was like (pause) I just couldn't focus on anything. I just felt...
THERAPIST: Yeah, you're really incredibly anxious I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah, and just really, I don't know, like, scared the whole time.
THERAPIST: You've not, like, been physically yourself (inaudible at 28:38) I can remember. Not that you would have had to be. You know, I'm not saying...
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I'm making sure I'm not forgetting something.
CLIENT: Sort of. In college when I had...
THERAPIST: I guess he shoved you once, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, he shoved me.
THERAPIST: That's true, OK. Clear (ph) across the kitchen or something?
CLIENT: Yeah. So yeah, like, that happened and I've had people, like, yell in my face. But other than that, no.
CLIENT: I guess it's kind of like to me, the way it feels is like I'm walking home from a bar, you know, and there's some kind of drunk guy talking and I don't know if he's just going to be any old drunk guy walking along or if he's going to, like, get really angry for no reason or, like, what is ","P1-N401071":"going to happen. I just feel like I have no idea what's going to happen. And I want to be kind of prepared for anything but you can't. And I feel like there's been a time, like, all day, every day, I need to be careful. I need to be sort of paying attention to what's going on, like, making sure that ","P1-N401072":"both doors to our apartment are locked. Because sometimes, like, Ashby and I will leave it unlocked for a few hours because we're doing laundry or just going out for a second. So makings you're all those doors are locked. And also, like, how to get in and out of the house when the front of the house ","P1-N401073":"is being worked out and both not wanting to be there but also worrying that he'll come in and do something or just, like, come in and work on the apartment, which is creepy. Or, you know, like, will he take a shower? I don't know. Like, that's the thing. So I'm sort of like once taking a shower in your ","P1-N401074":"tenants' apartment and using their bath towels is on the table, it's kind of all on the table.
THERAPIST: Right. (inaudible at 31:16) because (inaudible at 31:18) so who knows what he would do (inaudible at 31:22). It's not (ph) like an issue of assaulting people, which is good.
CLIENT: No. He has an issue of, like, basically, like, yelling in people's faces.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yelling and being really intimidating and scary.
CLIENT: Yeah. And for better and for worse I think he definitely has a "you don't hit girls" in his head.
THERAPIST: We'll go for better for now.
CLIENT: Yeah. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Right, this is going to cause a lot of trouble if you're feeling this way at home for the next six weeks or whatever it is.
CLIENT: Yeah. And also, like, he's going to have a bitch fit when we tell him we're going to move. And also (ph) we won't have a landlord reference (ph) once we leave, which, you know, may or may not be a problem.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 32:37) you can't be sitting in a coffee shop reading a book because you're so anxious. And you're going to have trouble sleeping and your startling. (inaudible at 32:55). You know, it doesn't sound like you've been at all dissociated through this and I'm not hearing anything ","P1-N4011B1":"reflective of that.
CLIENT: No, I've been feeling like...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 33:17) but, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not even (inaudible at 33:20) I felt like I'm not dissociated but, like, you know, give him testing me (inaudible at 33:30), like, a few times. Like, one day I called Ashby on her work day. I was just like, "We need to talk right now because I'm completely freaked out. I don't know ","P1-N401211":"what to do." (pause) But yeah, like, I don't feel dissociated but I feel like that's next door (inaudible at 33:49).
THERAPIST: Yeah yeah yeah.
CLIENT: A couple times.
THERAPIST: You think you'll feel better once they're done working on the house?
CLIENT: I think so.
THERAPIST: That doesn't remove the possibility of his, like, showing up and taking a shower, right. But (inaudible at 34:19) they're not being a regular presence, that way it would help or...
CLIENT: It would definitely help. I feel like knowing that he's done working on the house would help a lot and also yeah, I think, like, knowing that he's done working on the house, this would make me feel like I don't have to be worried all day, because then I would comfortable just, you know, I ","P1-N4012D1":"think just doing whatever because when he's working he's just there, all day.
THERAPIST: Would it be any easier for you if you were house-sitting for somebody this week?
CLIENT: I can't. I've thought about it. Like, one of my friends said I can come over any time. I'd be worried about my older cat (ph) mostly.
THERAPIST: Putting that (ph) aside for a minute (inaudible at 35:45) your friend's apartment.
CLIENT: I think it would feel better. (inaudible at 35:55) sleeping over at a friend's house. (sighs) Like, I like to sleep in my own bed but also (pause) I don't want, like I don't want to deal with it being that bad.
THERAPIST: What does that mean?
CLIENT: Like, I (pause) it's hard to sort of (pause) I feel really scared in my apartment. I don't want to be there at all, even when he's not physically going to be there. And so staying over at a friend's house overnight is...
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm totally freaked out and I don't want to be here anymore.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 36:55) I will tell you you're totally freaked out and you don't want to be there and it's really bad.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: [Whatever it is] (ph) (inaudible at 37:15). Like, I don't know. You've got a bunch of, like, traumatized-like symptoms and you're really feeling anxious or concerned about (inaudible at 37:28) if it gets worse. (pause) (inaudible at 37:36) considerable distance like he's necessarily going ","P1-N401431":"to do something in other words, yell in your face or storm in your apartment. But, you know, (pause) possible. And [a side note of that] (ph), like, it doesn't matter. You're really scared. [That has] (ph) a huge effect on how you feel. (inaudible at 38:04) and (inaudible at 38:11) he'd be done with ","P1-N401432":"the work by the time you'd get back. (inaudible at 38:15)
CLIENT: The thing is, it looks done but he won't tell us.
THERAPIST: I assume he's not going to pay guys to do stuff.
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: He doesn't have that much incentive.
CLIENT: I wouldn't describe this as hiring legal contractors in a (inaudible at 38:44) fashion. (laughter)
THERAPIST: I'm saying more like if he knows I'm sure if he's aware that he's aware that it's bothering you to have people working on your house and a mess and so forth, I don't imagine that, like, he has enough incentive to want to keep bugging you to keep paying people to show up and do stuff to the house.
CLIENT: Yeah. The one thing is that when he was renovating the first floor over the summer he also had to do some things in our apartment. This sort of, like, relative (ph) sketchiness of how he has people fix things is often, like, "Well, I have a friend. He can come these days but not these days. ","P1-N401511":"So there may be a random, like, (inaudible at 39:37)." Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I could see if he wants to do get it done quickly.
THERAPIST: I see. But, like, they might not show up tomorrow and then they might come back on January 3rd.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Got you.
CLIENT: Because I'm like, I think you just hired some sketchy day labor.
THERAPIST: Right, (inaudible at 39:55) sketchy, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, and your sister is now here yelling at people. (inaudible at 40:02) contracting like he hires people to fix the roof up or fix the house up and be like, yeah, he's going to be done really quickly.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I see your point though. (pause) I just wonder if it's worth trying spending the night somewhere else. I mean, like, I don't know how you take care of the cats but if you, like, go back in the evening and (inaudible at 40:26) and then sleep elsewhere or have Kelly take care of them ","P1-N401631":"or something. But I wonder I mean, (inaudible at 40:36) too much avoidance because that can you won't want to go back. But on the other hand, you know, some distance sometimes we [feel unsafe] (ph) for a while. Like, (inaudible at 40:46) too, you know?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don't know if it would help you just to settle down (inaudible at 40:50) for a few days.
CLIENT: That's true.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Might be tomorrow.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 41:12)
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm hoping it won't but I do appreciate that.
THERAPIST: Sure.