TITLE: Client "Ju", Session November 26, 2012: Client isn't very happy with the status of her friendships for the most part.
DESCRIPTION: Client isn't very happy with the status of her friendships for the most part.
CLIENT: Yep, that's everything. (pause) I feel like sometimes my — the iPhone calendar has saved my ability to do things (chuckles) because I can't remember.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And everyone is like "Oh, you can do this and that" and I'm like "no." I just can't. (pause) So I had a really nice time this Thanksgiving.
THERAPIST: Oh good. That's great.
CLIENT: Yeah, it was great and kind of sad in a little way because (pause) I don't always think sort of collectively how — I mean, I do, I don't know. I didn't quite realize the full extent of how frustrating and annoying and not fun Thanksgiving has become for me when I went to my parents' until ","P1-N400151":"I was like "Oh, I'm just, you know, hanging out with people I like and we're having dinner and it's really nice. I could take a nap if I want, and no one will wake me up." (inaudible at 00:01:51) even have a second full glass of wine because I could get one and then get a short pour but beyond that, ","P1-N400152":"it's just "no."
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: You know, it's just like "Oh, that did not settle" —
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: — which is weird because — not that I drink a lot, but two glasses is kind of nothing.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: That somewhat annoys me in that [it isn't exactly] to have fun cocktails.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But yeah, you know, like it was just very pleasant and I wasn't stressed at all.
THERAPIST: Oh, right.
CLIENT: So normally at the very least I'll see Jamie, I'll see Zoe (sp?), and kind of find out who else is around. Occasionally I'll see other friends who are more distant. (pause) So I didn't miss seeing Zoe (sp?) as much as I thought. (pause)
THERAPIST: (laughter)
CLIENT: But still, it's kind of like, come on, and part of me felt in a way that's not like it couldn't happen. But I was kind of thinking, I've been talking and thinking about this really horrible thing that happened in our friendship and in a way, I'm like that's somehow affecting her not calling me.
THERAPIST: Like you brought that up again and she pulled away again or something.
CLIENT: Right, even though like —
THERAPIST: [I understand it's psychological].
CLIENT: Yeah, totally. I'm just like — because at one point, I think it was like Friday late night or early morning, and I was super freaking out about it. Not really freaking out, just kind of like being more frustrated, like "Did I really text her? Yes, I did." Ashby pointed out that Zoe (sp?) ","P1-N400471":"works in the DOD and they've been a little busy lately, which is true, but she doesn't work in the areas where everyone has been going crazy, so I'm kind of like "hmmm."
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And she's like "Yeah, we should talk sometime." So, I don't know. It really wasn't very satisfying as like a thing to say.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And, you know, the other thing I was thinking about is kind of like, is it also that our friendship is just, naturally as friends we're drifting apart? You know, time passes, how many kids do you know from high school?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: That's really awkward and it puts Zoe (sp?) in a difficult position, like there's no way for her to say "No, you can't come." You know, she knows I don't like him and so I think it just makes it difficult if I want to do something with her and he says "Can I come along?"
THERAPIST: You know, I would say like in general, "no."
CLIENT: (chuckles)
THERAPIST: One can ask a partner, especially if you've been with him for a while, you live with him or whatever, "No, you're not coming, forget it."
CLIENT: So that's how I feel.
THERAPIST: I understand it may not work that way in their relationship but in general, people say stuff like that all the time.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's one of those things where like your partner is not attached to your hip, and an invitation is not implicitly the other person. But then I also feel like there are a lot of other people who are like "No, it always implicitly includes my partner." Or it doesn't implicitly exclude.
THERAPIST: Well, even if it does implicitly include them, they could know you'd rather — I mean, for whatever reason, they could want to be, or they know that you could want to be, just the two of you, [and tell the friend not to come].
CLIENT: Yeah. It's also a relationship aspect that I'm always like — (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Right. I understand.
CLIENT: Like, in general.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But yeah, you know, for whatever reason, it's difficult for her to do that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: In ways where I'm always like — like I've invited her several times to go to the Fat Girl Show, a fat shopping event. I'm like "Let's hang out and shop or whatever" and I think almost every time, she's been like "Yeah, so, you know, Abrahm is going to come along too" and I'm like "Why? ","P1-N4007B1":"We're going clothes shopping. He doesn't care."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And unless you're sharing driving down, which you don't even need to because — like, whatever, I'm just kind of like, this makes no sense.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Why would he do that? And why would you think that is like okay?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Because a couple of times when I tried to invite her, it was very much like "girls' weekend," you know, just to set the no-boyfriend stage. (laughter)
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Right.
CLIENT: It didn't work. So all that included aside, once she e-mailed and was kind of like "Meh, I'll call you sometime," I was also thinking like I don't know if I want to talk to her. Like if I actually want to talk to her or like if I would like to be talking to her, if that makes sense.
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: But I hate talking on the phone but, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: We could've made it work.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (pause) So yeah, I do feel like — I don't know. Like it's not that I have really boring "how's the weather?" conversations with Zoe (sp?). (pause) But I don't think recently we've had a lot of like really great "yeah, that was amazing" conversations. (pause) So, I mean, that was very weird ","P1-N4009F1":"to — (pause)
THERAPIST: I remember.
CLIENT: Yeah, it was just so awful. (pause) And kind of one of the things I thought about a lot during that was that I missed her, and I didn't want to regret not having seen her or talked to her or whatever.
THERAPIST: I remember you wanted to go down, and it was a question of how soon you could go down and see her, by then you were —
CLIENT: Yeah, I wasn't doing well either.
THERAPIST: Sorry, I was thinking like, if I remember right, trying to think what was best for her and not wanting (inaudible at 00:16:01) and wanting to see her, and you were —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: — really motivated to be there for her.
CLIENT: Yeah, you know, and one thing I thought about was I know it sucks when there's too many people at the hospital and, you know, staying in a hotel would be kind of crazy. Staying with her boyfriend would make me want to punch him, like everything. And I haven't visited since then. Like they have ","P1-N400B91":"a new place, whatever. And I was thinking well maybe for the next inauguration, I could go down and visit her and be one of many people wanting to stay at her apartment.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it sounds like it's more like you're sort of discovering that you don't feel as interested or as motivated to see her.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) And, you know — (pause) Yeah, and that's a very — it's just a very — like it feels really weird. (pause)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: At various times I would be like oh, it would be these and this and whatever. And so now, I'm like hmmm, maybe not. Or I was thinking about how RuPaul's Drag Race is doing a drag cruise which, you know, is for me. I'm like that is the most magical, wonderful thing in the world. I would go on ","P1-N400CB1":"a cruise for that, and I decided not to for money reasons, but I was still like that sounds so amazing. And I was talking to various people —
THERAPIST: So what is it -
CLIENT: It's like a three or four day cruise with a lot of members, like cast members from RuPaul's Drag Race, and you can pick your favorite drag queen to kind of get special events with them. Like a cocktail party where they might be talking or you could get a photo, and there's lots of drag shows ","P1-N400D11":"and sunlight and drag queens. But mostly there would be drag queens on a cruise. Like what could be better? (laughter)
THERAPIST: (chuckles) Uh huh.
CLIENT: That's pretty much it.
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: But also when I think about cruises, I'm always like there's going to be so many really normal people. Everyone is going to be straight and weird and white and "meh."
THERAPIST: I see. Not so much on this one.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm like that will be a (inaudible at 00:21:05) cruise.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: A couple [tran] friends of mine —
THERAPIST: That's too bad it didn't work out.
CLIENT: Yeah, the other thing is I really wanted it to be in February and it's in mid-December. So it's like I really want a cruise that's in the middle of the winter. (chuckles) Because I don't want that part.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm really bummed about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's too bad.
CLIENT: But yeah, Zoe (sp?) [actually doesn't even have an] interest in drag queens because, you know, certainly not everyone has to love drag queens. But I was kind of thinking like hmmm, what if — like there are gay-themed cruises which I know several people — couples who do that.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: It also makes me feel like, so if I can't invite you to — not that she has to share all my interests — but if I can't invite you to hang out with parts of my community, like where are we going with this?
THERAPIST: Right. (pause)
CLIENT: And there are some things I don't talk to her about, just because like I haven't talked to her about being kinky, just because it would be too much information.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: I'm like "only if you're really interested so you wouldn't be weird," and I don't totally trust her on that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) It's like the way that you're talking about all of this is sort of like realizing that you don't feel as close to her, I guess.
CLIENT: Yeah, I just like — I think basically I haven't wanted — a lot of these things are like individual events —
THERAPIST: Sure, absolutely.
CLIENT: So I don't really think about oh, there's like these 10 things.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's always like well, no, there's just that one time.
THERAPIST: Right. Like you don't want it to be true.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that would make sense, sure.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't want it to be true and also — then I'm like okay, well, like I have made not just one compromise but like a bunch.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And her compromise is, you know, basically around her boyfriend. I mean, there may be others, I have no idea. But as far as I know, that's like —
THERAPIST: But like what compromise is she —
CLIENT: In terms of like are there things she really likes that I'm not very interested in, that she's like "Okay, well, invite Karen to the economic policy discussion" because I don't care about economic policy.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Except that I can't really think of anything like that. (pause) You know, with regards to her job, I find it really interesting and we're of the same political leanings, and the stuff she does is totally interesting to me. And the social things she does, I'm like yeah, I would totally do that. ","P1-N401331":"Not that everything she does is something I would want to do.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause)
CLIENT: So there's that, but there's also like when I visit her in Philly — I don't know. I haven't gone to — I haven't met a lot of her Philly friends which I'm like, well, I don't go there that often for reasons and when friends of mine visit me, I usually don't — I don't always ","P1-N4013B1":"introduce them to all my local friends either because I want to hang out with them.
THERAPIST: Mmmm-hmmm.
CLIENT: Not the people I see every week.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess I feel in many ways like, with the exception of her relationship with her boyfriend, I just feel like her life is more of an open book to me than I am to her.
THERAPIST: [I get the impression, but I'm not sure, that you show more interest.]
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, like part of what I was thinking about this weekend is am I the one who always calls her? I don't know. (pause)
THERAPIST: Yep. I'm sorry, what did you say? "Hey — "
CLIENT: Oh, sometimes when I'm in Chicago, I feel like I know 50 people here, and I'm just like "I'm sorry — "
THERAPIST: Oh, "while I'm here." Is that what you said?
CLIENT: Yeah, "while I'm here, there's just too much family stuff."
THERAPIST: Right, yeah.
CLIENT: We leave the house or whatever. (pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know. But yeah, and also like she doesn't really express interest beyond some of the things that I just sort of give you the basics of. Like the last time we hung out together in Chicago, a bunch of us were going. We shared a room — Zoe (sp?) and I shared a room with two ","P1-N401631":"of my friends, and they were going to a BDSM party and we weren't.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think I remember this.
CLIENT: And so I sort of briefly sketched out, like "They're going to this -" I think I may have said a [pizza] party, I don't really remember. I said something like "kink stuff" or whatever "and they're going to that and we're not."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like I get that it is, in fact, a wacky, titillating topic.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: But that said, I don't know. (pause) Yeah, it's just — I guess also a part of that weekend was that I had gone with the expectation that we're going to meet up with some of my other (inaudible at 00:35:49) friends in Chicago and various things that didn't totally come together. (pause)
THERAPIST: I could imagine that you feel pretty sad about all of this.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean — yeah, it's hard to think about. It's sad and depressing. (pause) I mean, it also makes me feel like sad and nostalgic for when we were closer.
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause)
CLIENT: I think that's also part of when I see her at Thanksgiving and Christmas, you know, where we grew up and we both live in the same houses that we grew up in. (pause)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I don't really want to do that, like the "Well, I'm not going to call until she calls" test because it's ridiculous. But I'm also thinking so, but no, really.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like would she? (pause)
THERAPIST: [So I kind of wonder about, like what about your other friends?]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) It's just really — it's so hard to think about.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I don't know. (pause) And it's also like I think like well, let's say in the last five years, was there a thing that happened or was there like — because I'm trying to think when did this start happening and when — when I think about it, I think like, oh it's not just like right ","P1-N4019F1":"now, it's kind of further back.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: You know, the other thing that strikes me is that there definitely are a lot of people who are like "Oh, I never talk to anyone from when I grew up, like in high school or whatever." And I'm like yeah, I don't talk to 90 percent of the people that I knew when I was whatever age, but even people ","P1-N401A51":"I really like I have tried to keep up with and some people I don't like, who I liked then didn't like them or whatever — (pause)
THERAPIST: [I think that part of this is being unhappy where she's not, but also not being quite sure where she is.]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Not only not knowing where she is, but am I going to — like if I figure that out, is that going to feel like okay or kind of crappy?
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Oh Wednesday, right.