TITLE: Client "Ju", Session November 21, 2012: Client talks about her struggles with racial and sexual identity.
DESCRIPTION: Client talks about her struggles with racial and sexual identity.
CLIENT: So yesterday's appointment was like (pause)...at the end of the appointment, we started talking about that. (sigh) Yeah, that stuff is always hard. (pause) It also...the other thing that (pause) it brings up for me is that I often want to call on my friends at that time. (pause) Sometimes I ","P1-N4000D1":"just want to call on my friends (inaudible) Like I don't know, wanting to connect or something, and my friend Jamie is (pause) the only person I know from that time that (pause) ever said or brought up that it was a (inaudible) situation. [00:01:38]
THERAPIST: Is she the one who lived with you for a little while?
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean she could speak loudly because she does sing opera. (laughter) When she sings when she sang in high school she has a loud, low voice. But at the time she would always sing so high you could never hear her and when she finally kind of stopped doing that it was really weird for ","P1-N400131":"her because suddenly...she was used to sort of saying things quietly and no one really hearing. And then she's like, "Shit, everyone can hear what I'm saying and I need to be a little more..." It was like she had been sort of talking under her breath for most of her life and [suddenly we can] (ph) hear ","P1-N400132":"it, which is awkward for her. [00:03:03]
THERAPIST: Because?
CLIENT: It can kind of be a like a hot button little thing.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And I don't think it's the best school in the entire universe. I know! I know! Striking. Yeah, I mean I actually did want to go there for a long time. (pause) But I wasn't like well...I kind of like talked to you about it and then finished. [00:06:42]
THERAPIST: Right. I didn't realize she went there. I forgot.
CLIENT: Yeah she went to [inaudible] (ph) and I had been planning to go there since my brother visited. (pause) And what made me (inaudible) against it is when I did my own weekend visit or whatever thing and they had a little meeting for (pause) prospective students who were people of color and all ","P1-N400291":"these different people were like, "Oh my God, it's so white here. My school is like..." I think everyone except for me and one other person had way more diverse high schools. My high school was actually less diverse than [inaudible] (ph). And I sort of had this moment of looking around and being like, ","P1-N400292":""I don't...I really don't want to be..." I've had a long time of being that one black person on campus that everyone knows. I was just kind of done with that...very done with that, and thus school. (pause) In the end (inaudible) it, especially my freshman year. I loved it.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) ...to be anonymous like that.
CLIENT: Oh yeah. (pause) It was (pause)...it was really like...it was so... (pause) yeah, it was just amazing to me too. So many people have that (inaudible) with why it's so white, so much (pause) you know, it's so whatever. And my reaction was like, "Oh my God, look at all these people who aren't ","P1-N400301":"white." And the only real culture shock I or like whatever, there's always culture shock but to me the weirdest thing was in my high school all the honors classes were about a quarter Jewish if not more and the university isn't. So that weirded me out and then I remember talking to people who had ","P1-N400302":"never met Jews. I was just like, "What?" [00:11:28]
THERAPIST: You mean at school?
CLIENT: Yeah. My roommate had never met anyone who was Jewish. I think it came up around Hanukkah probably but it was just like, "How did you do that? You were in honors classes." (laughter) Like it was really natural in my head that that's just how it worked. (pause) So yeah, that was weird. I could ","P1-N400341":"go places and no one knew who I was. Like no one knew my brother, no one knew my parents.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I imagine (inaudible). I'm not saying (inaudible) but my impression is that's another way you sort of stood out sometimes.
CLIENT: It was really nice to not (pause) have different expectations. It was not to compare me to my brother's grades and yeah I totally wasn't this prissy (ph). In some ways I was like, "Wow, I'm maybe in like the middle!" Or in some classes, "Shoot, I'm here like (pause)..." Yeah, not doing well ","P1-N400381":"in the class was really (pause)...it wasn't good. It was just very novel. (pause) But yeah, it was nice to be like, "Oh, a lot of people here read a ton of books," and all of that. (pause) And also I discovered other sci-fi fans which (pause) I hadn't really in high school. (pause) And reading comics...I ","P1-N400382":"don't know. (pause) Just a lot of ways that I couldn't dress weirder than the pet rats (ph) even if I wanted to. I was like, "Nope, I'm just normal (ph)." When it came to sexuality I'm like, "Oh, there's a lot of that happening." [00:14:39]
THERAPIST: Sexuality?
CLIENT: The beginning of freshman year [they put] (ph) freshman in a little...it's kind of like a combination of safer sex, "Be careful," "Don't get roofied," "You might be gay," kind of like a conglomeration of information thrown at you. (pause) And so what was, to me, very refreshing and exciting ","P1-N4003C1":"kind of was how nonjudgmental people were. Previously to that my high school health classes were very judgmental and very heteronormative.
THERAPIST: Surprised by (inaudible)?
CLIENT: Yeah. It was (inaudible). I don't know. I saw some early relatively early teaching teens about JV, which (pause) didn't go well. But my parents were very nonjudgmental and open and I felt like no one else was so it was really inspiring to see how our RA would be like, "Yep, here are some ","P1-N400401":"things. Here are some condoms. P.S. you can get an abortion at the clinic. Run free." [00:16:27]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) going to the quad, [you know just] (ph) the fact that they are rooming together (inaudible).
CLIENT: Oh no, so at the time (pause) you could rank where you wanted to live. You could pick out your roommates and you could rank where you wanted to live in the houses.
THERAPIST: And nobody wanted to live in the quad right?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Ah ha!
CLIENT: The people who wanted to live in the quad were some of the athletes because it was close to some of their stuff.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And the Black Student...most of the active black students were in the quad. So like all the black student groups get to room in the quad. And then (ph) house was the Asian-American students and (inaudible) like (pause)...there were a lot of sort of racialized (pause) house identities that the ","P1-N400541":"university then sought to destroy. [00:20:12]
THERAPIST: Didn't they randomize (inaudible)?
CLIENT: Yeah, and they actually very successfully (pause) decimated a lot of (pause), I don't know, power that [the ethnic] (ph) groups had. Like the (inaudible) groups had because you weren't all there anymore. (pause) The truth hurt (ph). But yeah that was (inaudible). So at the time there was just...I ","P1-N400581":"didn't do that. Which I guess at the time I was like, "Whatever." (pause) It wasn't that I was rejecting the black student organization, it's that I didn't feel like I particularly knew...I didn't have a sense of black community that I was missing because I didn't have one. (pause) And at least my freshman ","P1-N400582":"year the people I knew who were talking about it a lot or encouraging like, "Oh you should go. It's so awesome," or whatever, they were people who grew up in black areas or had a lot of black people go to their school and they really missed that. And so I was kind of like oh, I don't really miss that. [00:21:45]
THERAPIST: Right, because you were black and at the university at that time. [00:22:54]
CLIENT: Right. (pause) Yeah, I don't know, I just...
THERAPIST: And then you also just want to help them.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm like, "Oh that person sounds interesting." Also just like it's a conversation killer because all I can say is no. And then like once or twice (pause) that Ashby's been like, "Oh, I met this person. Well you know [more about them] (ph)," or whatever and I'm just like, "Nothing." (chuckle) ","P1-N400621":"I can tell you whatever is on their personal website or whatever and that's it. [00:23:47]
THERAPIST: That's cool!
CLIENT: It is. I dug up old newspaper online. It had digi-typing everything online so I was digging around for information on my dad the other day and (pause) yeah, it was kind of weird because he was like, "Yeah, I did that. (inaudible) and then we did meetings in my apartment." (chuckle) And I was ","P1-N400681":"like, "Oh, you're so creepy." (pause)
THERAPIST: No I guess that's where I thought...[it's kind of a physical thing in itself] (ph) sort of nice hearing about the stuff your dad did in college because he's kind of out there more in a way that I don't generally get the impression of him being with you or he was representing himself that way with you.
CLIENT: Yeah, no like...I just didn't (pause) realize that he had a time of recreationalized politics because (pause)...I mean I could just read his articles and I'm just like, "That's not...my dad doesn't talk about that ever." (chuckle) You know? [00:27:16]
THERAPIST: (pause) It makes you wonder about your degree of aloneness with all this stuff, (inaudible)
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. (pause) I don't know. Like, I wonder what made him...
THERAPIST: He helped you I think.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don't know what made him change as far as I know. (pause) I don't know if it was...wonder if it was working. Just saying the words (inaudible) which is, you know, kind of looking for demand as it were or like reading, teaching (inaudible). But yeah, it would have been (pause)...or ","P1-N400761":"even as a kid I noticed and knew that (pause) there weren't many black dolls for me to play with. Like I had some that my parents had bought me and then my friends did so that was annoying sometimes. And I know I kind of talked to them about it in the context of wanting another black doll or things ","P1-N400762":"like that but they never (pause) explained or sort of talked about like, "Oh, we can't find that doll here." But then I was like, "Ask one of my aunts in the midwest to send us something." Or if we were going to go down there for Thanksgiving which we did a couple times then I think they probably bought ","P1-N400763":"something when they were there. [00:29:42]
THERAPIST: Do you wish you had been (inaudible)?
CLIENT: I don't know actually. I really don't know. I wished (pause)...I wish I had at least gone to a couple of meetings. (pause) But I don't know. (pause) I feel like in college I ended up developing and experiencing...I sort of, I basically didn't really think about my racial identity very much and ","P1-N4007C1":"I think that it could have been (pause) nice to (pause)...it would have been a good time to (pause) I don't know...experience growth, talk to other people at a time where there were a lot of other black people that I could talk to who were in a similar...I don't even necessarily want to say it would ","P1-N4007C2":"have been nice to be like oh, let's all talk about...whatever. [00:31:45]
THERAPIST: Are you saying...I guess part of my understanding is that (pause) you have such devastating experiences in high school that you would have been relieved to be somewhere where you didn't have to think about it as much.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that has something to do with your not...I guess there are a couple things. The other thing you mentioned was not feeling the lack of a kind of community (ph) because you hadn't had one growing up before that. But I guess [you are having] (ph) both of those things? [00:32:39]
CLIENT: Yeah and the other thing was is that I think one of the things I was doing in part...so my brother did join a black student group at school and so when he came back from school he would talk about it among other things. (pause) So I ended...so in college I think a lot of, when I thought about ","P1-N400841":"race, I thought about I don't want anyone...I want people to ignore that I have a race, is kind of where I was at. I don't want it to be...it's not that I don't want the issue; I don't want you to even know. Almost like I want people to forget that and (pause) it took me a while to sort of get past ","P1-N400842":"I want to erase my racial identity as opposed to I don't want it to matter in a negative way. I want people to acknowledge that I have a racial identity and they not be assholes about it. [00:34:03]
THERAPIST: Which is different from sort of not acknowledging it at all.
CLIENT: So the thing that would have been really helpful to have realized or understood earlier than I did was that I think the desire to be like, "I don't want you to think of me as a black person. I want you to whatever, whatever," is that that basically ends up being, "I want you to think of me as ","P1-N400881":"normal and white." It just kind of comes down to, "I want you to forget that I'm not white. I want you to treat me like..."
THERAPIST: I see. (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah, it really is. (pause) And I had worry...figure that out about gender and about a lot of other things.
THERAPIST: Figure that out...?
CLIENT: Like in regards to gender I was like, "I am a woman and I want you to..." and not like (inaudible). But it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter in a negative way.
THERAPIST: Right, (inaudible) asshole about it.
CLIENT: Right but it's also important to me that you don't treat me like...they're like, "Oh you're just like a guy!" and I'm like, "No, I'm a woman who is also a human and blah blah." [00:35:42]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I got it. So you were kind of there with gender?
CLIENT: Yeah and I [was pretty confused] (ph) with sexual orientation and a bunch of other things and it took (pause) a while to slowly get there about race and I just wish I'd done...had sort of dealt with a lot of that in college or started to deal with it or just...
THERAPIST: I see. It would have been a good place.
CLIENT: Yeah it would have been really convenient. (pause) And I don't even think I wasn't even really...(pause) I don't think I even really...(pause) I just didn't...(pause) there were always things that I didn't know was going on that probably anybody else would have been like, "Oh hey!" Like this ","P1-N4009C1":"problem, it's like when I talk to (pause) teenage queer people I'm like, "Yep, I can tell you what that problem is, it's this, and these are some things that would help." (inaudible) I'm like, "I know to you this seems like you are the only person who's ever had this traumatic, difficult, experience. ","P1-N4009C2":"Actually, you're not." And I surely would have appreciated that. [00:37:30]
THERAPIST: Or (ph) what?
CLIENT: One thing I know that I was worried about was when my brother was at college one thing he talked about a couple times is that (pause) some people had said to him that you can't identify with your Finnish (ph) background. You have to reject that. And he was uncomfortable with it and I was super ","P1-N400A41":"uncomfortable with it. And so I think a little bit in me thought well if I join the black student groups, will (ph) that happen? That would really suck. [00:38:26]
THERAPIST: That's good to know I bet.
CLIENT: Yeah, to talk about and to...
THERAPIST: I thought about it. It must be pretty common.
CLIENT: Yeah, (pause) especially if you grow up in a predominately white area, (pause) that and dating. (pause) I just, I didn't know. I had thought that when I left high school a lot that the sort of white people being like, "Oh I can't date you because you're black," I had thought a lot of that was ","P1-N400AE1":"their parents wouldn't approve or some kind of...in my head I succeeded it with [super parent preventional] (ph), whatever, attitudes. So I thought that when I got to college in a city with all these people that that wouldn't happen anymore. And it totally did. And (pause) I just didn't have any...I ","P1-N400AE2":"didn't totally get what was going on or it would take me a while to be like, "Oh, right. It's that thing again." [00:41:17]
THERAPIST: Is there a way...yeah, it's like you...it does [remind me of] (ph) a bunch of things that almost lead you to imagine you were not likely to find support or similar experiences.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which considering you pretty much hadn't before (pause) makes sense. I mean, considering you anticipated that (pause) finding it cramped would be very hurtful again, I would think. It makes sense.
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean one other thing that happened this was freshman year I was shy. I felt alone like so many freshman and I remember talking to Zoe about it on the phone and she (pause) was saying how [inaudible] (ph) is like sci-fi group. She's like, "It seems like if you join that group at [inaudible] ","P1-N400BC1":"(ph) you have instant 50 friends. So why don't you go do that at school?" I was like, "Oh, that's a good idea!" And that group was really white and also very invested in the idea a lot of sci-fi fans have that (pause) they are smarter and better than other people and therefore are too smart also and ","P1-N400BC2":"evolved for racism or sexism or anything to touch them. So (pause) that was a thing. I think there may be, maybe, six other people of color in the group, maybe. (chuckle) I can really only think of four, maybe five. [00:46:53]
THERAPIST: Alright, that didn't help.
CLIENT: Yeah, throwing my eggs into that social basket really didn't help.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. We're on for Sunday and Wednesday next week? I got your text, I think, also.
CLIENT: About the 11th?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:47:17]