TITLE: Client "J", Session April 08, 2014: Client discusses being in debt, religion, and work.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses being in debt, religion, and work.
CLIENT: No, I’m just glad you find that guy funny. It’s probably why you find me funny. I bet you if someone was asking you to do a British female accent, that you would probably do the Monty Python female accent. I don’t know if they’ve done it recently, but a decade ago they ","P1-N4000B1":"were doing surveys of that. And they were finding that most males were doing the, hello, Mrs. Grail. ‘Cause that was what everybody.
THERAPIST: What is the predictable sound bite?
CLIENT: Does he have a check for $3,000? No. It’s about what my acupuncturist is charging me. I was going to write it out to her. Much better looking than you.
THERAPIST: I’m sure she is.
CLIENT: Yeah. So I’m going to get some acupuncture. Apparently, I am damp heat.
THERAPIST: I think you mentioned this actually, last week.
CLIENT: So I had my first little pinning session yesterday. And she said she went really easy. But I definitely feel looser. Like, not as tight. [1:45] I feel it more joint and muscularly, but she says everything’s loosening up. The organs and things are flowing or whatever. And then she’s ","P1-N400171":"going to send me suggested foods to eat and foods not to eat. I don’t understand why Chinese medicine won’t let me eat Chinese food. She’s like, it will, it just has to be steamed.
CLIENT: So that’s going to be hard with Marcia to diet. It’s funny. I went over there Saturday night. Dropped my dad and stepmom off at the airport and we had a late lunch or, you know, at Manchester Burger. And I wasn’t going to get anything, ‘cause Marcia was going to cook ","P1-N4001B1":"dinner and I wasn’t hungry. So I get the big burger and all that. I was just stuffed. I mean, all I do with my parents is eat. Everything’s a meal. So I get over to her house and she had gone to Trader Joe’s. She’s all excited how she’s going to Trader Joe’s and she’s ","P1-N4001B2":"doing salsa and chips. I said, trust me, I’ll be eating this stuff later, but right now – And actually, I was attempting to show willpower, and I did until much later. I knew it wasn’t going to last for long. [3:21] ‘Cause she was having a lot of fun with it.
THERAPIST: Maybe the different – it seems to me difference is that things that happened with Jess was you don’t seem to feel as kind of dominated or shut down with Marcia as you did with Jess. I’m not sure how much of that’s them, how much of that’s you or what. But that’s ","P1-N400231":"how I hear it.
CLIENT: I think it’s me. You know, I recognize that now I can get grumpy or drift off or get sad. [8:16] This really had nothing to do with any of that. I think a lot of the other conflict has. I think she’s been better in supporting me when she’s not angry.
THERAPIST: Well, you guys had a long talk about that a few weeks ago, right?
CLIENT: Not long. But she’s definitely making an effort to be a bit more supportive or whatever. But I don’t know. For me, it’s like a rollercoaster. I’m just getting used to it, because it’s been going on for – ever since I started the whole online dating thing. ","P1-N400291":"Even before that. [9:21] It’s not sticking with me. That’s my problem, is things stick with me. That’s what happened Thursday night is, she’s always saying, get over it, get over it. And that actually causes me to hold my ground more. And while I don’t like told this – ","P1-N400292":"for her to say get over it, and I’ve asked her not to say it, this is probably a time where she should have said it. But I just didn’t comprehend what was going on. Hopefully, this getting my stomach and innards and getting back in shape and all this helps. I don’t know. You know, ","P1-N400293":"I feel little confused at times. I’m forgetting things very easily. [10:25] Or, in a conversation. You know, when you’re asking your 73-year-old dad who literally looks like he’s 85 to remind me what we were talking about, you know. I think a lot of that is that I’ve got a lot ","P1-N400294":"on my mind now. And I’m definitely handling it so much better.
THERAPIST: That’s great.
CLIENT: Work is continuing to – A guy’s hiring me for a condo conversion. This guy whose landlord was forced by the city to turn his three bedroom into a two bedroom, because when the landlord made it a three bedroom, he counted their apartment as the second means of egress. [11:35] You ","P1-N4002D1":"kind of when you – and my guy was withholding rent. Kind of when you take a three bedroom and make it a two bedroom, that’s a big breach of quiet enjoyment, quiet enjoyment being your use of the premises. You can’t quite use a three bedroom as you can a two bedroom, especially when ","P1-N4002D2":"four people live there. So it was him and his wife and two other guys.
THERAPIST: You know, I realized how your financial planner told you to make your list, I should have sent you -
CLIENT: Several different bills, yeah. But you’re high up on the list, because I don’t have a lot of debt. Flo fucked you though. She fucked you big time. Well, she lent me $4,000 and there’s an after school program in Plymouth. And Ian’s good friend who’s Jewish goes there. ","P1-N400331":"We’re getting a couple of years from starting bar mitzvah stuff. I really want him to go there. It’s really expensive. But it’s like, twice as much as what Jess had been sending him to, arts and crafts or whatever it is. [14:02] And I said to her, don’t worry, I’ll pay ","P1-N400332":"it. It’s like everything. It’s like, the taxes. I said, don’t worry, I’ll pay it. She still worries that – Finally, I was like, don’t worry, I’ll pay it. She’s like oh, I misunderstood you. So we’re sitting there and it’s $430 a month – ","P1-N400333":"or $410 if by a certain date.
THERAPIST: Apart from what you owe me, I’m glad things are looking up.
CLIENT: Apart from what you owe me. Other than the fact that I can’t eat.
THERAPIST: You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think what I’m going to do is – you’re tax advantaged. So I think I’m going to just – I don’t know what my limits are from my Health Savings Account, but just start feeding that thing, ‘cause now with the acupuncturist and all that. So if ","P1-N4003F1":"there’s money there, I’ll send it to you. But I’ve got this one – number one, I’m not remembering to take my afternoon Adderall. And I set an alarm and everything. I don’t even hear it go off. I don’t know it’s going off. It’s like, two or three ","P1-N4003F2":"o’clock that I feel that – oh, it’s up for the day, because I hadn’t taken the Adderall at noon. [18:58] You know, I’ve been fighting through it and getting stuff done. I’ve got this one motion. I don’t know whether I told you about it, the woman who moved out ","P1-N4003F3":"and then they evicted her and got like, $7,000 judgment against her. And she goes to pull her credit to buy a house, and there’s this judgment there three years later. So at the time, you know, if we had fought this six months after it happened, no problem. But the time is a consideration for the court.
THERAPIST: Like how long it’s been since the judgment?
CLIENT: So it may even be three years. So I really need to get this fucking thing done, and I just can’t bring myself to sit down and work on it. A lot of it’s ‘cause I’ve got all this other stuff to do. Part of it’s probably ‘cause she sends me $50 a week. [19:54] ","P1-N400431":"But once again, it’s a little bit out of my comfort zone.
THERAPIST: How so?
CLIENT: It’s just a big motion that I haven’t done this type of motion. I probably need to do some research on it. I definitely need to do some research and fax. It’s one of these things where it’s probably not as bad as I think it’s going to be, but I just, you know, can’t ","P1-N400471":"get myself to do it. But I think as I’m getting more involved in being the court, that this kind of thing is going to be a little bit more natural. She has a great case. It’s just the time. Number one, the e-mail, I’m moving out this weekend. The response, I’m showing the apartment ","P1-N400472":"to a tenant on Monday. [20:46] That’s like, you know, January, February. This guy’s got April, May, June, July, you know to the rest in rent. And first of all, a notice to quit is only valid if it’s received. Now, constable’s notice of service is prima facie evidence. But clearly, ","P1-N400473":"this wasn’t received. I don’t have the same argument on the compliant, you know, when the filed the lawsuit.
THERAPIST: Could you get Marcia to text it to you?
CLIENT: She’s more confused and forgetful than I am.
THERAPIST: Maybe she can do it.
CLIENT: Yeah. She was supposed to – I did tell her that Donna has repeatedly gotten mad at her for not reminding me to take my medicine. [24:14] And usually that night she’ll remind me to take my medicine. I think it’s because she takes care of Mrs. H. that you would think oh, she ","P1-N400531":"has these great caretaker skills. But it’s like me. I don’t want a lawyer for myself. I don’t have the energy. It’s the same thing with her, you know. It’s like, doing an overnight with a 96-year-old woman who’s blind and crazy. They have a 24-hour shift. She only ","P1-N400532":"does from like, 5:30 to 10:00 in the morning. But they like, over Saturday have a 24-hour shift. The woman or whoever ends up taking that job quits, ‘cause you know, it’s a rough job. So I think that might play into it a little bit. I don’t know. But I’ve got to take responsibility. ","P1-N400533":"[25:25] I’ll try to figure out a way.
THERAPIST: How long will it take to get the rejection back?
CLIENT: I don’t know. We just finally got everything to the sheriff’s sale specialist. So I don’t know. And I wish he would just say, send us a letter saying, ‘cause she gets paid out of the sale, that she’s not willing to -
THERAPIST: The short sale specialist?
CLIENT: Yeah. That she’s not willing to submit this offer and waste her time, because she knows it’s not going to be – But she won’t do that. [31:33] Which is probably for the better. Let’s just get the denial from Chase and let me personally call them up. So that’s ","P1-N400631":"been going on and driving me nuts, just from the perspective of Jess. She gets it form her dad. She just worries about everything. Kids, or you know. But I had a good weekend with my dad. He actually looked better than the last time. Flo and everyone – I asked people how they think he looked, ","P1-N400632":"and people really do think that he looks 85. The guy has been through hell, you know. And I’m worried.
THERAPIST: I don’t know a lot about it.
CLIENT: There was a time when I was trading with a woman in the square in a service exchange. And I left the house, and I was fucking just going a mile a minute, ruminating. Just freaking out. I walk over there and I could not leave the place, I was so relaxed. I wouldn’t have – I couldn’t ","P1-N400711":"drive a car, I was so raucous. I mean, sometimes you get up and you’re a little dizzy and disoriented. But I was – I mean, it calmed me down. It was also effective in – I was getting my shoulder worked on. It will get rid of the pain for a day or two. It came back, but, you know. So ","P1-N400712":"I think, you know, the other chiropractor, Dr. Grace, she wanted to work on my stomach. It can’t hurt. I still feel I’m getting stomach pains, and I just don’t want to go on the Prednisone. [39:27] I think sugar’s got a large part. I cut that out for a long time. It’s creeped ","P1-N400713":"back over the years, pretty much since I went crazier. But I was sad on Friday.
THERAPIST: You mean from the stuff with Marcia?
CLIENT: You know, and same – she dumped me, because she said she never wanted to talk to me again, wished me luck. She goes, I hope you find someone who can – I said, I can’t and that person doesn’t exist. She’s like, that’s probably true. I’m like -
THERAPIST: I’m a little confused. So this was the incident on Thursday night that blew up over you bumping into her? [40:22]
CLIENT: Well, I was grabbing her. I was doing a lot more, but I didn’t realize it until the next day.
THERAPIST: So you were out. I know you sort of explained what happened in so many bits and pieces.
CLIENT: We were in the back, and there’s this guy -
THERAPIST: The back of?
CLIENT: The sound board.
THERAPIST: Okay. You’re at a show.
CLIENT: Yeah. Dumpstaphunk. Nathan Isleman.
THERAPIST: I think you mentioned you were going to that.
CLIENT: Yeah. Oh, my God. I didn’t realize how good he was just playing the keyboards. They had two bass players, a guitar player with an afro like this. A drummer, percussion. It was just great. A bunch kids and then there’s all us old folks in the back. And there’s this guy, Spinning ","P1-N400891":"Casey. I think every once in a while he gets really wasted and just goes to the front and spins. You know, it’s like a fucking Dead Head thing or whatever. [41:23] And I noticed that Casey – first of all, Casey was kind of being al title too touchy feely with me, you know, grinding and stuff ","P1-N400892":"like that. But I finally just reached around and grabbed his sack and he never touched me. But he did send a text the next day to Marcia saying that I did that and that he thinks he liked it. But him and his wife are trying to -
THERAPIST: Do you know him?
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. We know him. But I think he’s trying to either get Marcia to do a threesome with his wife or – ‘Cause we went over there weeks ago, and when we got there the wife seemed a little upset. And then she went upstairs, and Marcia’s like, you didn’t notice how ","P1-N4008D1":"she came downstairs and her shirt was all buttoned and how she gave you a hug when she left? [42:11] And I did notice how she gave me a hug when we left. But he was being all this stuff. I was probably just doing the same thing, and she was pissed off with him, too. But because it’s me – ","P1-N4008D2":"So, she said I was mean, and she – I just wasn’t happy with the answer, and so I went up to the front and hung out in front. I was just like, I don’t know.
THERAPIST: On Saturday.
CLIENT: …on Saturday. Once again, I admitted I was wrong. [43:52] So yeah, I’m just all over the place, but it’s in the right direction.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean, the way you’re talking today is a little more sort of all over the place and scattered, I think, than usually. Although a lot of the things you’re talking about are good. I mean, the thing with Marcia wasn’t good, but it sounds like you feel pretty good about ","P1-N400951":"how you handled it. You were confident how it was going to turn out.
CLIENT: And I’m learning. I’m – the next time. Oh, by the way, Friday was our one year anniversary of meeting. This was the shirt she got me, ‘cause that’s the concert we met at. So she sent me something in the morning. She’s like, well, I guess you really don’t ","P1-N400971":"care. Happy anniversary. And that’s the point I should have been like, starting to apologize. But I didn’t. But I think I’m learning from these things. Like I said, she’s obsessed with me. She said, I love you more than you know or something like that.
THERAPIST: We need to stop for now.
CLIENT: Yes, we do. I’ll let you know when you move up on the list. Yeah. You might want to reissue the invoices.
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: Have a happy Passover.
THERAPIST: Thanks. You too.
CLIENT: How long will you be out?
THERAPIST: I’ll be out two weeks from today. I’m in next week. The following week I’m out.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 45:58) Joan’s which is a Sunday. Sunday she’s working, so she doesn’t get to sit at that miserable Seder and eat Tracy’s horrible food.