TITLE: Client "J", Session April 01, 2014: Client discusses financial court proceedings, and their children.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses financial court proceedings, and their children.
CLIENT: Apparently this thing has a – I can just put my thumb and my finger on the button. But because of my case, I can’t do that.
THERAPIST: Oh, is that one of the ones that has the fingerprint recognition?
CLIENT: Yeah. So I can pop it up. It’s not really that easy. As soon as I start doing that to deter my son. He’s always looking over my shoulder. I had to change my password, ‘cause he – Oh, my lord. So I’m doing pretty good. A lot of shit happening. Very busy. Overwhelmed ","P1-N4000F1":"at times. But last – was it Tuesday where I was going to see Marcia and we were going to talk. And, you know, I went over there and I got the – there was some more conversations. And, you know, she seemed very mad. I couldn’t understand why. I mean, this is consistent, but why is she ","P1-N4000F2":"mad, you know. And so I went over there.
THERAPIST: This is the one you were sort of -
CLIENT: We had an agreement with back in 2012. And I don’t know where we were in the process when I spoke with you, but he starts acting like he’s wanted this thing. He sent me an e-mail back in November, is it still for sale. You know, I don’t even think it’s still a short sale, ","P1-N400171":"but I’m interested. I’m interested, you know, in a short sale. So, you know, his mom was actually – there was something going on with the unit when Patricia was taking people through. I said oh, it’s already under agreement. That’s weird.
THERAPIST: Chester was not going to accept the agreement with Jerry.
CLIENT: Right. Backing up, though. Jerry, you know, you’ve got to let us know what you want to do. And he comes back with a very stern, you know, I have an agreement. I’m forcing my rights under the agreement original, you know. I’m ready, willing and able which is case law language ","P1-N4001D1":"to buy. And Patricia responds, Jerry, I think there’s a misunderstanding here. You know, your offer is not going to be acceptable to Chase. It’s going to be rejected. The price is $259. You know, they’ll take 80 percent of value. That may or may not be in there, but I was kind of – ","P1-N4001D2":"I don’t think they would take it.
THERAPIST: His offer was lower.
CLIENT: We listed it at $269, and we got two offers at $275 and one at $281.
THERAPIST: That’s great.
CLIENT: it doesn’t matter to me. I’m just signing the deed and walking away. I’m going to cry a little bit and then jump for joy. So we’re basically saying to Jerry, Jerry listen, make us an offer that will be acceptable to Chase. And that was my intent. He puts in an offer. ","P1-N400251":"Well, what happens between Claire and Patricia. You know, Claire technically would be entitled, under the listing agreement, would be entitled to the commission and she was just backing off and letting it go. [6:17] And so Patricia sends that e-mail, you know. Maybe she’ll give us something Chase ","P1-N400252":"will approve. And he comes back with an e-mail, multiple paragraphs, which was clearly written by a lawyer, but signed by him. You know, cease and desist. Tortious interference.
THERAPIST: What does that mean, when they say it’s closed?
CLIENT: The file’s closed. It’s not approved.
THERAPIST: It’s not approved.
CLIENT: Yeah. She doesn’t understand sort of, the lingo. I was like, can you call Chase and have them put that in writing for us? She was like, ehh. I was like, okay, whatever. And I ended up going to Phil. Phil calls us all in the office. This guy wants to see
THERAPIST: Phil called Jerry’s lawyer. [10:17]
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, and basically, Phil is like, Cameron Swisher is the most laidback conveyance attorney I’ve ever met. And your guy has him shit livid. And I’m there like, cracking up. But I’m pissed. And so, you know, we said listen, we told you yesterday – ‘cause ","P1-N400391":"one of the e-mails back and forth with Jerry was okay, we’ll put your offer through with Chase. And the response was, boom. Shooting again, this letter. And I’m like, I’m done with Jerry. So they had their conversation. They want – So I called Jess to make sure that she’s ","P1-N400392":"applied with his offer.
CLIENT: So what happened after we got this -?
THERAPIST: Didn’t matter, right? If it’s closed, it’s closed. [13:44]
CLIENT: All I’m showing is this document. I’m not letting Jess talk to anybody, because she will fuck it up. So if we go into court, we’re screwed. So, you know, and yesterday it’s like, I went to the acupuncturist and the chiropractor and it turns out I’m actually going ","P1-N400451":"to do acupuncture first and then work out some – Oh, but what happened on Sunday night. I found out that I’m not the captain for spring league. And I’m usually like, jonesing for captain. And I now think there’s a conspiracy among the kid who’s director of league operations, ","P1-N400452":"to just turn me away at all, you know. And I can’t see any other reason why. [14:32]
THERAPIST: What’s the difference if you’re captain or not?
CLIENT: For me, it’s that I feel like the decision of whether I go there or not. You know, it’s easier to bail on something. If you’re not captain, the captain doesn’t have to be there. For instance, soccer – is the first game – soccer board meeting. If I was captain, ","P1-N4004B1":"I would go to handball, and not the soccer board. Well, as a player, I’m going to the soccer board meeting. And I haven’t done any exercise, and it turns out (inaudible at 16:17) It was like one serious – well, there was two, the board meeting in May. That’s where they elect ","P1-N4004B2":"new board members. I’ve got to go to that. And then, Warren Haynes is playing with the Boston Symphony, and that’s on Wednesday. But I could make everything else if I was captain. And there’s another captain. But with me being a player, I could make three of the seven games. So I e-mailed ","P1-N4004B3":"the guy again, and I said, you know, just take me off the league. Send me my money back. Get someone on the waitlist who can play on Wednesday. Never heard back from him. That was Sunday. Then, I finally hear from my captain. I said listen, you know, you guys got to get someone from the commission or ","P1-N4004B4":"I’m not playing. (inaudible at 17:06) So, I was upset, you know. And -
THERAPIST: How many years have you played in that league? [17:14]
CLIENT: Going on close to 20.
THERAPIST: Wow. How long have you been captain?
CLIENT: Last fall was my first time. People were giving me shit about it. And, you know, I’m always complaining about my captains, and Tommy Feld’s like, you know, us volunteers, blah, blah, blah. So, you know, I felt like, okay, I can volunteer. I’ll be the captain. Everything I do ","P1-N400531":"gets shot down. The insurance – you know, the waiver thing gets shot down. The Web site gets shot down. It’s like, every time I try to do something for this organization, it gets shot down. And so, you know, I can’t really explain to Marcia how it was more than just not being made ","P1-N400532":"captain, you know. Really, it’s a job, too.
CLIENT: You know, it’s like – why hasn’t the human evolved? You know, you would think over evolution. I mean – So then I’ve got an appointment with the financial planner. And for me it was more of a networking thing to see him. [19:27]
THERAPIST: I think like, hard alcohol and fried foods have only been around for a very short percentage of our evolutionary timestamp. We’re probably just not quite there.
CLIENT: I didn’t ask you.
CLIENT: I go to the financial planner and he kind of totally forgets that I’m there more for networking than for, you know. So I start out by saying hey, you know, my estate planning business is booming. He’s like oh, I forgot you did estate planning. I’m just like – But this ","P1-N400611":"is what you’ve got to do – this is what I’m (inaudible due to simultaneous dialogue 20:01) You know, but I said to him, money has started coming in and I just want to know how to handle it. What am I going to do with this cash flow? So he made me write down all my debts. I was like ","P1-N400612":"God, you know, I wish I could put Dr. Avi in here, but he won’t give me an invoice. But, you know, I put the hospital and the Faculty Medical Physicians Group.
THERAPIST: I’ll get you one.
CLIENT: I put them all in there. [20:31] If I put them from smallest to largest and started paying them off, boom, boom, boom, boom. He goes, your GAP card you owe $100. Pay it off today. Money starts coming in, you know, go ahead and pay the $800 bill to the – Psychologically, it’s going ","P1-N400651":"to feel better. You’re going to feel like you’re making some progress. He’s like, and you keep doing that, and you’re going to find that it may take a couple of years, but it may take a lot shorter than that. Then I’ll be in a good position with all this debt gone. It’s ","P1-N400652":"not a super amount, but it’s, you know, it’s (inaudible at 21:14) You know, collections, but, you know, hospital and what not.
THERAPIST: He’s going to go back for the fall?
CLIENT: I said, don’t you hate Ms. Rose the music teacher? He said, yeah. I said, don’t you love – he was telling me he was writing a song for Mr. Sanders, the music course, the music guy. And I’m like, aren’t you going to miss Mr. Sanders? He’s like, yeah, that’s ","P1-N400731":"why I’m writing the song. I go yeah, but if the only decision was to do junior chorus. All you wanted, isn’t it? He’s like, yeah. Of course. I went, now you can’t do junior chorus with Mr. Sanders, because you’re – And he was like, yeah. And I’m like, and, you’re ","P1-N400732":"all the way across – To me, it shows number one, how Jess can’t stick to a position, you know. And she’s been driving me crazy with this fucking crying on the phone. [26:31]
THERAPIST: Oh, is that the reason?
CLIENT: That and some other things that I had no idea about. You know, it’s like, literally a walk to school and now you’re going back – and that affects me, too. I’ve had no say, and I’m going to talk with her now about trying to get a separation agreement. And I’ve ","P1-N400791":"got to focus now on – it’s pointless, but it’s going to take up time. [27:20] She’s got an appointment at 11:30. But anyways, last night when I get up there and I’m telling Marcia about all this stuff, she goes, she didn’t say that sucks, but she said something similar. ","P1-N400792":"And she responded, you know. So I really think that – the discussion wasn’t – I think this probably went back and reread the message and understood it. But she totally changed, which for me was like, left me feeling better.
THERAPIST: That’s terrific.
CLIENT: And today, I’m like, printing out my titles. I’m like, this is Strafford County and they want it today. I mean, today. They’ll get it Monday or Tuesday. Like fuck, I’ve got to call these people back. I was going to go to Andover. I’m like, ah. So I’m going ","P1-N4007D1":"to switch everything up now and prioritize this and just do what I can. [28:29] I e-mailed a bunch of people and let some people I’m going to get in touch with them. And, you know, I can go to Pembroke first. I’ve still got to do the title. Actually, I don’t know what I’m going ","P1-N4007D2":"to do that. But I could just go to Strafford, do the title at Strafford and then bring the copies which may be quicker. But today I’m just like, no big deal. No anxiety. No worries. I had some anxiety yesterday about today and tomorrow, and not being able to get in touch with people. I think I’m ","P1-N4007D3":"just kind of settling into the kind of pattern of how this all happens.
THERAPIST: The rhythm of it.
CLIENT: Triage. You know, call the guy who wants to do the condo conversation over the tenant who’s got problem with the landlord. And I think I might have been more expensive than the other lawyer he talked to, so he’ll probably go with them. But he’s been really – Well, you ","P1-N400811":"really know your stuff. So we’ll see. [29:41] So I think I’m kind of grasping it better. I just feel a little disappointed in myself when I can’t get back. Someone was referred to me by the people down the hall, the property manager down the hall. And he called me yesterday at noon, ","P1-N400812":"and I didn’t even realize this until like, 6:00 at night, you know. Where was I all day? My God, when am I going to call him? I’ll call him on the way to Strafford. I think that’s what I’m going to do.
THERAPIST: When’s he coming?
CLIENT: Friday. So I’ll have more time with the kids, and she’s going to come out.
THERAPIST: Does she know your dad?
CLIENT: Yeah. (inaudible at 32:54). She doesn’t know my mom. And the financial planner was chastising me as to how I was spending money. And, you know, I’m kind of redoing my office. And he was kind of wavering on that. So I started joking with Marcia. I’m like, the financial planner ","P1-N4008F1":"said to stop spending money on you. And then she kind of took the wrong way. I was like, no, no. I had spent money on the Patriots tickets or the Red Sox. I’m trying to give examples of other things he doesn’t want me to spend money on. And she’s associating – She’s like, ","P1-N4008F2":"I don’t have to go to Patriots games. And I’m like, no. I know I can be a little difficult to follow and she has difficulty following.
THERAPIST: It’s funny. I guess that is something that comes up that’s difficult between the two of you. It’s like, when you’re actually giving each other shit and when you’re kidding around and it gets a little blurry. IN other words, she thought you were continuing to ","P1-N400911":"give her shit, right? But you weren’t. You were actually trying to back off. [34:23]
CLIENT: Right. You know, she’s watching Housewives, so she’s extra distracted or whatever stupid show was on TV. I am like, exhausted. I’m just like, can’t even keep my eyes open on the couch. So maybe I’m just recognizing these moments a little better. And not, instead ","P1-N400931":"of like when I see her getting mad, not getting defensive or, you know. [35:05] I was really anxious and I was worried that I had trouble talking to her once I realized how she confused everything. Like, going through it in my mind all day, what to say and ended up not saying anything. I had said it all.
THERAPIST: What I guess there seems to be – I wonder what it was. What was making you anxious?
CLIENT: Talking to her.
THERAPIST: Right. But I wonder why in that? I guess maybe what it was, was -
CLIENT: I was worried about making her understand, and not saying the wrong thing.
THERAPIST: Actually getting across what you may have wanted to say. [35:57]
CLIENT: And I was like, managing all of this personal stuff with all the business stuff. And it’s overwhelming. I’m really overwhelmed. And it’s like that $3,300 bill. I mean, I hadn’t billed the guy since August. You know, that’s money I could have had a while ago. I still ","P1-N4009F1":"feel like there’s a bunch of people I’m owed money for stuff and it will be coming in at some point. [36:47] But I’ve got a couple of really pressing things that I’ve got to deal with. Today was the day I really -
THERAPIST: Now you’re saying the relationship to getting the bills out to the people who owe you money and communicating with Colleen after it was clear that she had misunderstood before where you were coming from. And like, it seems in both instances maybe you’re kind of anxious about any ","P1-N400A11":"other person giving you what they should be. [37:29] Colleen being able to say it and then having her sort of take it in and do whatever with it. (pause)
CLIENT: I do need to cut back both eating, spending and start exercising. I think she missed the point about spending a lot of money that I wouldn’t be spending. I’ve just got to pare that back. [38:22] ‘Cause she doesn’t mind making dinner. And I think she feels guilty about ","P1-N400A31":"not having money and stuff like that. I even said stop spending money on the kids. I paid $50 down payment for the league last night. I didn’t even know there were hockey drives. No one tells me anything about stuff that’s going on. Ian’s chorus has performance, and the woman who owns ","P1-N400A32":"the (inaudible at 39:01) the networking. She’s coming into town specifically to train us. And the training’s from 6:00 to 10:00 or 6:00 to 9:00, right in the middle of Ian’s concert. And I’ve got to go to this training. (pause) [38:29] Well, there goes dad here again. They call ","P1-N400A33":"it the father of the year. (pause) Saturday I was in an eight hour course getting my F license for soccer coaching.
THERAPIST: Have you been able to see the trainer at all, or are you just too busy?
CLIENT: I’m busy. It’s – I think once my handball schedule settles in, I can maybe find a time to do it maybe later on Wednesdays, after. The problem is getting through Concord. So anything in the late afternoon or rush hour just prolongs. The town’s like a mile away. It’s ","P1-N400A91":"lumped with Pembroke. You can spit, but it takes three days to get there. [41:54] But I feel right now it would be a waste of money, because after two seconds, I’d be done. So I’ve got to start doing it on my own. Every day I’ve wanted to do it and every day for some reason it doesn’t ","P1-N400A92":"happen. And I went like, three days in a row where I didn’t even eat until dinner.
THERAPIST: I’ll send you an invoice.
CLIENT: Okay, send me an invoice.
THERAPIST: I will send you one this weekend.
CLIENT: There are probably some debts that will get paid off before you, but there’s definitely some that won’t.
THERAPIST: All right. Well, why don’t we stop for now. (inaudible at 43:46)