TITLE: Client "J", Session March 25, 2014: Client discusses communication issues with romantic partner due possibly to being overly-sensitive.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses communication issues with romantic partner due possibly to being overly-sensitive.
THERAPIST: I have a feeling I’m going to hear that for the next 45 minutes.
CLIENT: No you’re not. My string of happy Tuesdays is over. The Bruins’ streak is over and my streak is over. Twelve in a row, by the way.
THERAPIST: You mean, your Tuesdays or the Bruins?
CLIENT: The Bruins. They lost in a shootout to Montreal. So I guess I kind of finally hit my wit’s end with Marcia and the way she reacts to things that are – So, we listed the house – not the house, the condo this weekend. The first day that it was on MLS my Realtor got thirty e-mails ","P1-N400111":"and fifteen voice mails. [1:00] So she decided on Sunday to just basically plot out an hour for people to – not advertise an open house, but you know, I think she said something like forty people came through in the hour. Multiple offers, the best offer being a cash deal for $275. Now, we were ","P1-N400112":"under agreement with this guy, Tom, whose sister and brother-in-law own unit one. And he’s a big mucka muck lawyer. So they never wanted to in a purchase and sale. They basically had an offer that the buyer was free to cancel if we didn’t get short sale approval within sixty days.
THERAPIST: I’m a little confused.
CLIENT: Two years ago we listed it with Claire. And we were under agreement basically, and I basically hand fed her some guy, with the idea that her and Jess – and they fucked it up. [2:06] But, you know, this guy’s sister says to Patricia, well, the house is already under agreement. Like, ","P1-N400151":"we’ve been under agreement for a year-and-a-half. I got an e-mail from this guy in November saying, are you still selling the condo. I imagine it’s not a short sale anymore. Does that sound like someone who’s under agreement? And most importantly, considering we got a cash offer for ","P1-N400152":"$275, and his offer is $259, is Chase going to approve a short sale of $259. And there’s also language that says I there, in terms and conditions, you know, agreeable to seller. And $259 right now is not agreeable to me. [3:01] It doesn’t matter to me, because the ultimate price – ","P1-N400153":"I’m not walking away with anything, you know.
THERAPIST: A short sale specialist is like a lawyer?
CLIENT: No. They basically are just – they work with the lender for a fee. Part of the broker’s commission to get the short sale through. [4:04] And brokers are glad to do it.
THERAPIST: I see. Because they can be more sure it’s going to happen.
CLIENT: And, the funny thing is, is this guy Jerry – I handed to -
THERAPIST: The buyer.
CLIENT: Yeah. I handed him to Claire.
THERAPIST: All they had to do is not fuck it up.
CLIENT: So, Claire didn’t procure him, so I could hand him off to Patricia, which I’ve done. And I’d prefer to accept something from Tom, because Patricia would get the entire commission, because there’s no other broker involved.
THERAPIST: Meaning, the short sale specialist, or meaning -
CLIENT: Patricia would get, you know, usually -
THERAPIST: Patricia would be the whole commission through Jerry, if Jerry was the buyer?
CLIENT: Well, in other words, she wouldn’t have to share the commission with another realtor. [4:58] So she’s going to make more money with Jerry, or someone who doesn’t come through the Realtor. I think the cash offer – I don’t know if the cash offer has a Realtor or whatever. ","P1-N4002F1":"But Jess’ being a pain in the ass. And then I’m like, you know, I feel like – I felt just some – and, you know, and I’ve got to get Jerry. I e-mailed Jerry and said, you know, talk to Patricia. And I gave his information to Patricia. And, you know, I feel like I at least ","P1-N4002F2":"owe Patricia an e-mail that she shouldn’t find out that I’ve gone with someone else – from someone else, you know.
THERAPIST: Sorry. What would the release mean?
CLIENT: The release is, Claire’s company is holding $1,000. All the parties need to sign, giving Susan’s part of the escrow agent. Whatever. And he wouldn’t sign one. So, you know, so I’m dealing with this. And I’ve got to get a closing package done. And I’m texting ","P1-N400351":"back and forth with Jess, and I’m just like, forget about it. It doesn’t fucking matter. Just forget about it. If you’re going to be a pain in the ass, forget about it. You know. Sixteen years of criminal defense has taught you everything you need to know about the real estate market, ","P1-N400352":"including short sales. [7:00] And my practice takes me nowhere near that realm, so what do I know, right?
THERAPIST: But that’s the point you’re making.
CLIENT: You know, this stuff is all my fault. [15:00] And I’m telling her, I just need support. I need whatever. And she doesn’t even respond. I’m like, hello, you know. And she’s like, I have nothing to say. And I’m like, call me. It’s like, I don’t want to ","P1-N400491":"talk right now. I was like, I’ve got the kids at 2:00. You know, call me before 2:00. I’m just feeling – My stomach is like, I can’t focus. I can’t get anything done. And so she calls me, and she did say, let’s pick a time when we’re sober and can talk about ","P1-N400492":"it. And I was like, that’s the problem. I can’t talk about these things with you. And she was like, well what did I do to you yesterday. And of course, it’s the same thing. It’s like at that moment, I could not think of anything she had said to me that was a dig on me. I was ","P1-N400493":"like, my music, my clothes. You know, generally, I don’t exactly know what you were saying. But everything was some sort of dig on me. [16:06]
THERAPIST: Right. You’re pretty open, actually. You don’t sound defensive at all.
CLIENT: I said, for many reasons, I have trouble having serious conversations with you about me. So I wrote some of it down. I thought I needed to express these things. I’m sorry it’s so impersonal. I love you very much. Her response. Ugh. Well, sometimes I feel like I have to be so careful ","P1-N400591":"with what I say, because you’re so sensitive. I can’t help what comes out of my mouth sometimes. It just does. I don’t mean to hurt you, but you’re easily hurt. I’m not used to that, or used to someone constantly depressed. That is very difficult for me. [23:25]
THERAPIST: Maybe.
CLIENT: I’m not constantly depressed, I’m not easily hurt, and I’m not so sensitive. I take constant abuse for a living. Please understand these are major issues in my life. I have overcome a lot, am the happiest I have been in a long time. Frequently, I don’t think you realize ","P1-N4005F1":"the things you say to me. Example, you’re depressed. Get over it. I didn’t talk to you after that, and for some reason, that made me the asshole. One reason we have problems talking is because you will not listen to me. The first time you asked me about why I went into therapy, I said two ","P1-N4005F2":"or three sentences, and you took over the conversation and completely changed the subject. Most of the time when you ask me a question, you cut me off and start talking about you or something else. A few weeks ago you asked me about why I was sad. It was many things, but I started with the kids. You ","P1-N4005F3":"muttered under your breath, they are kids. I go on to say that work was difficult and you mutter under your breath, that’s life. Why should I continue? Why should that not upset me? How would a conversation with you go, if I had talked about how I used to have suicidal ideations, which, she probably ","P1-N4005F4":"has no idea what that is.
THERAPIST: Oh, I bet she does. [25:09]
CLIENT: Should I just go put on my big girl pants? That’s what she always says to me. Right or wrong, I’ve always had this feeling that I do not get the credit for things I do. Instead, I’ve always been called an underachiever. With Jess it was always a big issue that I did not pull ","P1-N400631":"my weight around the house. I pulled my weight and then some, but it wasn’t the chores Jess thought I should be doing or even knew I was doing. I guess she thought after a fifteen hour day at work, I was supposed to come home and mot the floor. This was very contentious. Had arguments in marriage ","P1-N400632":"counseling. You hit a sore spot by saying I don’t clean up and what not. When you were busting on me over and over again about this and my clothes and my music and pretty much anything I did yesterday, it added up.
THERAPIST: I get what you’re saying about reliving your marriage in that – [27:26]
CLIENT: That just adds to it. That’s not the problem.
THERAPIST: I was also going to say that your reacting pretty differently than you did in your marriage. I mean, sure you said a few things that were defensive or depressive. But a lot of things you said, were not. You know what I mean? Like, it seems to me that you were much more open with her about ","P1-N4006D1":"like, hey look, this is what I want. This is why I hurt. This is you’re doing that bothers me. I wish you’d do it this other way. Which I think actually is pretty different from how you often were in the marriage. Like, with Jess, I think you felt much more defensive and much more dominated.
CLIENT: I think I just assume that either all women, or at least women I’m attracted to – And that’s the thing with Marcia. It’s like, you know, okay, so we break up and then I go on to the next woman, and it’s like, it’s going to be the same thing. [28:29] You know, ","P1-N4006F1":"it’s like, this is not – A lot of this is no person specific. You know, I feel like it’s – a lot of it’s on me to get this stuff across. And that, to a larger part I’m incapable of doing it.
THERAPIST: You’re pretty clear on a lot of that. I mean, I understand that there was a moment when you were on the phone when you couldn’t think of things that she had done earlier in the – the previous day, I guess, that had really bothered you. But you were not at a loss for what ","P1-N400711":"you thought or felt through most of the interaction, at least as I’m hearing it. Look, I’m not trying to say it wasn’t kind of, an excruciating day, the back and forth with her. I know it was. But I am saying, you know, you were not at a loss for words, or unclear in your thinking, ","P1-N400712":"it seems to me, through a lot of it. Nor were you simply reacting. You know, it seems you put some thought into what you wrote and that you had pretty good access to what had happened and where you were coming from a lot of the time. [29:36] For example like, you know the stuff you just read to me. ","P1-N400713":"My sense is that it still sounds pretty right on to you. In other words, that you didn’t say, oh, my Gosh, I was in such a state when I wrote this. It sounds pretty clear-headed.
CLIENT: I went out of my way to accept blame where I should accept blame, but still – and point out I understand that, you know, this is difficult on you and I understand that. I’m not – it’s the I’m so sensitive. I’m easily hurt. You know, you can’t talk to ","P1-N400731":"me. And this is the perfect example where it may be reading, but it’s not listening. If she read that and heard what I said, her response would have been different. And by the time she responded, she probably felt poked, and that’s why I got these negative responses. But I still feel like ","P1-N400732":"I’m owed something here. [30:50]
THERAPIST: I would imagine that you want her to show that she actually took in what you said, which is the thing she hasn’t been doing, or at least it feels like she hasn’t been doing through the whole thing. Yes, I get that it bothers you when I do this. Yes, I understand that even though ","P1-N400751":"I didn’t know it was a sort spot, I know it is a sore spot and I will not do that. Or, I get that the financial stuff is stressful and you have a lot more expenses than I do.
CLIENT: Kids. Things come out of my mouth, and I can’t help it.
THERAPIST: Right. I understand. Sort of a disavowed responsibility through all this.
CLIENT: It’s like, you’re fucking 44 years-old, you know? And of course yesterday when all of this is going on, normally they have a buyer when they purchase a house, make the bank check that they need to bring to closing payable to themselves. And I always did this kind of – that’s ","P1-N4007B1":"what all other lawyers did and that’s what you’re supposed to do. And for me, it was just a way for me to show that that was the buyer’s money. That if there was ever this implication that I was in on some conspiracy for them to get a loan from somewhere else, I’d say look, you ","P1-N4007B2":"know, this is a bank check made out to the buyer. It’s their money. Even if it’s, you know, who is this purchased by or remitted – that doesn’t matter. And I have them sign it at closing. And this of course, was my first purchase, ‘cause I had deposited – and in a ","P1-N4007B3":"re-fi I don’t have them do that. I just have them make the check out to my office. You know, and I deposited the $3,000 check. So I go to TD to deposit this $3,000 check and they’re like, we need her to come into the bank and sign an affidavit. What? We need her to come. How do we know that’s ","P1-N4007B4":"her signature. I said because, you’ve got defenses and protections and there’s this thing called Uniform Commercial Code. And it’s my client trust account. I have responsibility for. I’m telling you, I saw her sign that.
THERAPIST: Right. It’s like me. [37:20]
CLIENT: And I’m like, why do you want this certificate? I said, you know. And he thinks this is going to be substantive hearing. I’m like, this is a continuation of a status conference. Do you got the citation, which he did. The return date was the 19th, and as it says right on the citation, ","P1-N400871":"I have 30 days to file an affidavit in opposition. Why are we having a substantive hearing before those 30 days are up? And then, he’s like, well, she’s got you know. He’s always putting me down like I don’t know anything. I don’t know if he knows this is my first conservator ","P1-N400872":"or whatever. I am inexperienced in those areas. That’s fine. But he brings this up.
THERAPIST: But it’s sort of like, he’s also wrong.
CLIENT: He’s like, you know, the judge is going to appoint a temporary conservator on Wednesday. That’s fine, because the statute says a judge can only appoint a temporary conservator in an emergency. [38:33] Like, if something was going to happen to the property and it has to be on motion. ","P1-N4008B1":"Where’s the motion? You know, so I don’ think this guy is actually doing this intentionally. I just think in his mind, he’s got the cart before the horse so badly. You know. This is the guy who puts on there, L.I.C.S.W., you know.
THERAPIST: Really? Like he himself is an L.I.C.S.W.?
CLIENT: Yeah. That’s his bona fides along with, you know, esquire. So I can’t really figure this out, you know. And it’s a case I really need to shit or get off the pot on. And I’ve been meaning to do stuff for this hearing to at least, you know, have gotten up to speed. Everybody’s ","P1-N4008F1":"going to walk in there and it’s like judge, you know, I’ve got 30 days from the return date, you know, if you want to schedule a future status conference or some deadlines, that’s fine. [39:40] But I have ‘til whatever date to file my opposition. There’s no motion before ","P1-N4008F2":"the court, you know. ‘Cause he’s like – he keeps threatening, I’m going to go and tell the judge I haven’t done my due diligence, you know.
THERAPIST: No, I don’t think I heard about that.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. Long story short. This guy called me a Jew bastard, ‘cause I was beating up on the 85-year-old woman. Well, the 85-year-old woman called me. And she’s like, you know who your client is? I said, you know, your guy claims that – Well, first of all, you’ve done ","P1-N400991":"all these things wrong, and you shouldn’t be having your mobster, property manager wanna be threaten to kill me and to beat me up. And I said, you know, these were just done wrong. 42:34] And I told her, I said, this is how it has to be. She’s like, well, I never collected $30. I go, well ","P1-N400992":"your agent collected $30. They can’t collect $30. I want it back.
THERAPIST: I hope it goes well.