TITLE: Client "J", Session March 18, 2014: Client discusses ongoing financial and legal issues.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses ongoing financial and legal issues.
CLIENT: Not a whole lot of complaints. Other than there’s no money coming in. I’m making it. I’m getting clients every day, you know. Or at least, I think there’s just going to be the kind of people that come in. I send them the engagement letter like, for an estate plan. And ","P1-N4000B1":"some are going to do it and some aren’t, you know. And I’m finding that tenants aren’t very reliable as far as making appointments and teleconferences. So the way I look at it, is I’m too busy to chase these people down. [1:00] You know, one of it is – one that I’m ","P1-N4000B2":"– she’s got a great case, and I’m doing it pro bono. And the first time, you know, she sends me this panicky e-mail, you know, 45 minutes before the meeting.
THERAPIST: Do lawyers generally not charge if people are a no show?
CLIENT: Well, not a free consultation. And I think that’s the rub there is that it’s a free consultation. I think even if I charged for the consultation, people would still not show. And at least at this point. Even when I went to the Plymouth office and the woman didn’t show up, I ","P1-N400111":"was working later than I probably would have, but I was working later than I probably would have. You know. So I really – like yesterday, you know, the client was supposed to come in today. As you can see, I got gussied up for him. [2:36] You know, he calls me. You know, he’s one of these ","P1-N400112":"people who calls multiple times. Like, just keeps hanging up and calling. Or leaves a message.
THERAPIST: Is yourDo you have music on your phone?
CLIENT: Yeah. You’ve got eagle-like hearing. Sorry about that.
THERAPIST: It’s all right.
CLIENT: But anyways, things are going okay other than just the rate at which money’s coming in. I’m at a closing tomorrow and the seller’s attorney’s a schlub and fucked everything up and just, you know, is looking for every excuse not to do things and push things through. [4:37] ","P1-N4001B1":"And you know, git ‘er done. You know, I don’t care. It’ll close. I know the people will be upset, but you know. I think we’ll close tomorrow. I’m kind of interjecting. But it’s like – There was a slight delay because of me. He sent me the documents, and basically, ","P1-N4001B2":"probably five business days before I actually looked at them. And when I looked at them I noticed that, number one, all of a sudden there’s a power of attorney in the picture. And part of the property’s in an IRA and stuff, and so you’ve got to get the custodian to sign off. And they ","P1-N4001B3":"give someone – They’re an LLC, so they give this woman power of attorney. [5:33]
THERAPIST: The custodian?
CLIENT: The custodian does. And I’m noticing on their certificate from the secretary of state in Delaware that the names, while similar, don’t exactly match. There was a shortening in the last deed filed. They’ve already gone and gotten the deed signed. And, you know, someone who does ","P1-N4001F1":"a lot of real estate and prepares deeds is you do all the information you need on the first page, signatures on the second. So if you need to make a major change, you just change the first page. A very common practice. Well of course, this guy doesn’t do that. And I notice that – So it’s ","P1-N4001F2":"an LLC. I’ve got to run and make some checks on the NH Web site and that they’re not registered in NH. [6:28] As far as the laws and the title standards I know, you can’t – that’s doing business in New Hampshire, and we’ve got some sort of problem here.
THERAPIST: He asked what the affidavit was?
CLIENT: Right. And I Googled him. And years ago, he’s in East Manchester. Years ago, I’m talking a long time ago, he got in trouble for screwing up some closings and not paying people’s taxes and kept screwing it up, you know. So I thought this guy did a good amount of real estate. ","P1-N400251":"But he doesn’t know what this affidavit is, which is very common. But no one’s told him about it. Because we’ve got to record the power of attorney. And we’ve got to record the affidavit from the attorney in fact, saying that to the best of their knowledge, it hasn’t been ","P1-N400252":"revoked, and that the principle’s not dead, that it’s an LLC or whatever. [8:25] So, you know, normally, I’d just be freaking out. I think it will ultimately come through. If it doesn’t, it doesn’t. It’s very clear – I’ve kept good contact with my mortgage ","P1-N400253":"guy, you know. Saw his attorney. He’s in court all day and then, you know, we were originally supposed to close on the 13th. On the 12th, I’m like, where’s the final water, you know, which he said he was going to send me several days earlier. I’m working on that.
THERAPIST: That’s good.
CLIENT: And when Jess did it the right way and drove the kids and Lucille gets out of the car, I don’t want to stay, I don’t want to stay. Mommy, mommy, mommy, mommy. Take her upstairs. Mommy, mommy, mommy, mommy. Put her on the couch. Tell her to take off her coat. She takes off her coat. ","P1-N4002F1":"Boom. She’s fine. And Jess dropped her off like the parenting coordinator had said to do the last time, the same thing would have probably happened. There’s usually one either in the evening or the morning where she’s momma, momma. Do you want a bubby (ph)? Okay. It’s getting ","P1-N4002F2":"much better. [14:26] You know, there’s a separation anxiety specialist. But after this weekend, I think it’s just normal behavior.
THERAPIST: It sounds logical. She spends more time with her mom and, you know, it’s hard.
CLIENT: And Jess, you know, over – not over protected her, but she over-nurtures, you know, if that’s possible.
THERAPIST: Separation anxiety.
CLIENT: So yeah. Separation anxiety. And Ian has it. He gets it from Lucille who has it from him. They’re stuck together all the time. But I’ve got Marcia -
THERAPIST: She settles down after Jess leaves, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. And we have fun. But she’s always like -
THERAPIST: There are kids who like, keep screaming and crying for hours when one parent leaves. [15:22]
CLIENT: Well, that was why the first time was so frustrating, ‘cause you know, the tantrums. And Jess’ blaming it on the screens and the TVs and the phones. And, you know, she’s got to find a cause and effect for everything. It just can’t – Things don’t happen naturally ","P1-N4003F1":"in her world. Anything that rocks the boat is not normal and can be solved. Her mom’s the same way. Everything’s got to be solved, which is fine, because I don’t want them to use my phone, because they fuck it up. And I like to have it. Which on a Friday night, I’m still doing ","P1-N4003F2":"business until 6:00, 6:30, you know.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: And that fits in with letting them take their toys wherever? I just want there to be stuff for us to do.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I wouldn’t necessarily say it’s like, these are mine. But letting them know there are some toys that are going to stay at daddy’s house, so they’re here every time you come.
CLIENT: I mean, they’re good with the books. She likes the (inaudible due to simultaneous dialogue at 17:30).
THERAPIST: Some toys you can bring back and forth, but there are some toys that I always want to make sure are here when you’re here. [17:33]
CLIENT: I had to leave them short at hockey, because I had my G license course for youth soccer. That’s the lowest level license for coaching. And you get an hour and a half of classroom time, which really sucked, because you’ve got an egotistical soccer God. He kept saying he was. And then ","P1-N4004D1":"you’ve got all these other people, the European, the this, that, the other, and everybody’s got to put their say in. And he’s like listen, you can do what I say or not do what I say. But this is what I’m saying to do. The thing is for youth six, passing’s useless. Well, ","P1-N4004D2":"thanks for wiping it up. Youth 7, my guys are great passers now. [18:30] But the thing is that, even at – the reason my guys are great passers is that we had a practice at 4:00. And we did a couple of drills and this other scrimmage, so we got two on two. All four are at different levels. I said ","P1-N4004D3":"okay, you guys have to pass the ball three times before you can score.
THERAPIST: That’s a great idea.
CLIENT: And I’ve had coaches come up to me – and so now we’ve started doing that every scrimmage. And I have coaches coming up to me saying, you know, your team passes really well. You know, of course, their team crushed. One of the things about passing is that passing is a lesser ","P1-N400511":"skill to some degree. There are players yes, who specialize in passing. But their ball skills – they’re trying to develop their ball skills at this age.
THERAPIST: You mean like, dribbling something.
CLIENT: Yes. Exactly. Because even to get to the position to make the pass, they’ve got to be able to -
THERAPIST: Right. They’ve got be able to get ball and run with it.
CLIENT: Right. And I believe in this and I understand it, but these other people who are like, old school soccer and from Spain or wherever the fuck they’re from. You know, they can’t accept it. [19:42] But this is what they’re doing. You know, and then they quote the clubs like Arsenal ","P1-N400591":"and, you know, they got the kids in there this young. They hand choose the good ones. But we’re following their practices. So these people are arguing for the European way and it’s like, this kind of is the European way. So we did the hour and a half, which I felt was very helpful. And then ","P1-N400592":"we go and, they run you though drills like you’re the kids. And I’ve done this in very short, you know, the short sessions or whatever. But we basically played variations of tag with and without a soccer ball. You know, grown men and women for like, 45-50 minutes. And everybody had a fucking ","P1-N400593":"ball. I mean, the smiles on everyone’s faces. The little, you know, red light\/green light. And you throw in like, a purple light. And on purple light, you stop the ball. [20:44] You know, blue light. I always liked the one where they just fall to the ground. This one, you had to like, sit on the ","P1-N400594":"ball. You know, we’re doing stuff like that, and you’ve got to tag someone on the shoulder, tag them on the back. You know, and it’s really kind of showing how to get them to use the skills and sort of discover how to use the skills and not realize that they’re actually playing ","P1-N400595":"an activity. They don’t call us coaches, they call us activity leaders.
THERAPIST: Stuff like?
CLIENT: Drugs, you know. So he starts going towards the cop which, of course, they immediately cuff him. You know, he’s leaving the car. There’s something going on. And it was nothing. You know, he had – It’s funny, because you read the police report and you release the very ","P1-N400611":"embarrassing article in the Brockton Times. And these people, everybody knows everybody. Fathers were calling daughters. You know, your friend Steve, you know. [23:34] You know, it’s Class A, Class C, Class D, Class A with intent. He had two ounces of marijuana, which, that’s over the ounce. ","P1-N400612":"He had a scale and baggies and $500 cash. And he says that he can prove that he pulled the cash out of the ATM that day.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I get it. I wasn’t sure at the dramatic pause if you were going to say something about his reaction or something, so I was waiting. No, I get it.
CLIENT: But the amazing thing is how drunk he claimed to be. They didn’t get him for drinking and driving. Anyways, Brockton is this very tight-knit, you know, for the type of community it is where, you know, it’s really nice houses. You know, there’s some blue collar areas. You know, ","P1-N400671":"Watertown gets kind of pulled in there. It’s like, everybody knows everybody. Everybody knows what’s going on. But yeah. So she stops to talk to the guy, the guy who just bought the bar. I said, I’ve got to go. I went out to the car and waited. And instead of – I made a couple ","P1-N400672":"of sort of hints at her not coming very quickly, you know, but not in an angry sort of way.
THERAPIST: But you want them to stay, because you need the money. Yeah, for them to stay and start paying.
CLIENT: So that’s kind of not the landlord I want to be representing. You know, I want someone who’s willing to at least go in and work out some agreement if you can’t do it beforehand. I did turn down this newly graduated lawyer, admitted lawyer, whatever. He’s taking the case ","P1-N4006D1":"all the way to trial and wants me to come in and help at trial, ‘cause I’m so experienced. [28:36] I said, quite frankly, I don’t do trials, because it doesn’t get past mediation and shouldn’t. He was like well, these people are, you know. I go, you know, if you want me ","P1-N4006D2":"to sit there and feed you the law, I can do that. But to tell you whether to object or anything like that, you know. These are not – they’re completely formal proceedings. They’re a little more informal. Not quite small claims. You can actually, you know, cross-examine witnesses and ","P1-N4006D3":"whatnot. So I turned that down. Being able to turn things down and not really follow up with people, ‘cause I’m just not interested, it’s nice. I didn’t feel I was in that position before. In a couple instances it got me in trouble. [29:30] The reality is, is to do these things, ","P1-N4006D4":"you kind of need some volume. And that seems to be happening. It’s just a matter of, it’s going to take some time before the machine keeps churning the cash cow.
THERAPIST: That’s great that the work keeps coming in.
CLIENT: Yeah. I’ve not been able to follow up with everybody.
THERAPIST: That’s a good position to be in.
CLIENT: This may be awful, but you know, there was a guy who called me and I really couldn’t understand anything he said. And he never called me back. I didn’t care. I’m using my headphones now, which makes a huge difference. I’m thinking of getting Bluetooth. I’m not going ","P1-N400751":"to wear it all the time, but in the office or at home. But I don’t want to get a crappy one. I might even do it in the car, but the Bluetooth in the car is not that great. The AC, the engine. [30:52] The roads are so lacking because they’re all fucked up. I don’t think there was any ","P1-N400752":"period where, you know, occasionally anxiety, but really no – I felt a little anxious and panicky on Friday with helping her walk the dogs and trying to do stuff in between. We had taken her car in, and so that’s why I was hanging out down there. And then they couldn’t do her car, ","P1-N400753":"‘cause certain things needed to be done.
THERAPIST: Why does it make you feel uncomfortable?
CLIENT: It’s like a hard sell. You know. But I guess it’s not working. They’re not doing it, you know.
THERAPIST: So this is – you say write it at the table. You mean, after you’ve done the estate plan?
CLIENT: Consultation with them. If you want to hire me, I’m going to need a check. And first of all, I don’t think that meshes with the whole relationship that’s been established over the past hour. But I’m having trouble getting, once I get people to do the engagement letter, ","P1-N400811":"either they don’t do it, or they just send the engagement letter back and no one’s sending me money. I’ve got a handful of these things floating out there. [34:41] Same thing, you know, there’s just a lag time with people like, well, I want to see what happens, you know, I want ","P1-N400812":"to figure it out first. I want to -
THERAPIST: My hunch is that it doesn’t feel that it meshes with the relationship, because of what it feels like to you when you’re asking for money. I mean, the relationship is in part about money.
CLIENT: And I tell them, you know, you’ll return the engagement letter with the check, you know. And there’s going to come a time again when this thing is not going to bother me, because I’ll just be on a cycle.
THERAPIST: You still have the lag.
CLIENT: And the reality is –
THERAPIST: So the people will pay. It’s just a timing thing? [35:36]
CLIENT: I think so. I’ve got to be smart about following up with people. You know, you don’t want to nag them. You know this one couple, they had a baby and they send me the signature page of the engagement letter that they accepted, you know, by e-mail and that they’re mailing off ","P1-N4008D1":"the engagement letter and the check and wanted to know if I’d come to Manchester. It just became one of these things that kind of fell down a little bit. And they said that the check was coming. It never came and I never – that would have been my reminder. And it never came, and I just got ","P1-N4008D2":"buried and buried and buried. And so she follows up with me, you know. [36:35] Did you get the signature pages and can you come to Manchester. I said, yeah, I can definitely meet you at your home at your convenience in Manchester.
THERAPIST: You did okay at the soccer thing?
CLIENT: It came back yesterday morning, but now it’s better. [37:50] The encouraging thing for me was that I was able to play for a long period of time. It’s not like I was running at full speed. It was just that maybe I’m in better shape than I think I am. Today’s just like ","P1-N400931":"a day where I’m going to be in the office until 7:00. I’m just not going to have time to do my work out. I’ve got to go to a March madness draft after, so I figured I’d just stay in the office and crank it out instead of going to Andover and going back up to Fairfield. Also an ","P1-N400932":"excuse not to drive with my landlord, though I am excited to tell him that 10 months from now I’ll be caught up and will be paying on time. [38:53] I don’t think that’s going to happen as I’m bitching here that nothing’s coming in, that all of a sudden it’s just going ","P1-N400933":"to stop dropping.
THERAPIST: You could add that it also feels good to be getting the work. I get it that it’s frustrating that the money’s not coming in yet and that will mean a bigger boost. But still -
CLIENT: I’m keeping track. You know, when I talk to someone, I write their name down, the date. If it’s a landlord-tenant, you know what’s the property, are they landlord. Who is the landlord, you know. And that way if they do come into the office I’ve already got something. ","P1-N400971":"Also it’s sort of a measuring tool, being able to see based on whoever ultimately hires me and maybe I’ll be able to spot some things and I’m more able to work. [39:56] And at what point, what’s the point of okay, I’m spending too much time I’m not getting business ","P1-N400972":"from versus people I am getting from. And I think that’s -
THERAPIST: You might also learn how to talk to people or just get a feel from the people who are likely to follow through.
CLIENT: I’ve got to impress upon – a lot of these people think that I’m just – You know, it’s funny, because all the tenants complain about that all the tenants know the tricks and they don’t, because I tell them, this is what you’re looking at and they done’ ","P1-N4009B1":"believe me. They just don’t believe me. And I think a lot of people are just worried about retaliation from their landlord, which I tell them is illegal and it’s just going to get them money and it’s going to pay their attorneys feels. So I think, just like the security deposit law, ","P1-N4009B2":"you know, double damages and attorney’s fees and your landlord’s done. [41:03] This one woman who, they had a year lease, and then they renewed for a second year, but at the end of the first year, the landlord came though, saw a bunch of damages, fixed them, took it from the security deposit ","P1-N4009B3":"and had her give a new deposit.
THERAPIST: We should stop now.