TITLE: Client "J", Session March 04, 2014: Client discusses ongoing tax issues, inappropriate interactions with others, and issues with sobriety.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses ongoing tax issues, inappropriate interactions with others, and issues with sobriety.
CLIENT: You have a charger for the 5-S?
THERAPIST: Yes, I usually don’t actually -
CLIENT: But that’s how lights go on for me.
THERAPIST: It’s your lucky day.
CLIENT: I was going to buy it at [inaudible at 00:00:18]. My car’s in the shop and so I bring my laptop. And the shuttle drives me right here, I can go over to Larry’s. I left my laptop in the car, which of course has my wire in it. I was at Staples; they’re $20 just for the wire and ","P1-N400131":"I guess I bought a bunch of other stuff that I actually needed. But I wasn’t upset about leaving my laptop. There was a piece of I guess plastic was hanging down from my axel and you really don’t notice it until you’re driving on the city streets that are curved up like that from all ","P1-N400132":"the construction; it drags. [00:01:14]
THERAPIST: Wait, I’m a little confused. So I thought you got really drunk on Saturday night and learned your lesson?
CLIENT: Well, I didn’t learn it Saturday; I learned it after Laurel basically called Marcia and said Cameron is and I thought -
THERAPIST: This was last Wednesday?
CLIENT: This was last, well it ended up being Thursday that I finally spoke to Marcia. And [00:07:08]
THERAPIST: Sorry, I’m just a little confused. You said that the Saturday you got drunk was the previous Saturday?
CLIENT: So last Saturday, not this Saturday -
THERAPIST: Ah, the one before.
CLIENT: The one before that.
THERAPIST: Okay, all right because the reason this didn’t come up last week is because you hadn’t heard from Laurel yet. I got it.
CLIENT: Laurel talked to Marcia on Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Yes, okay, now I get it.
CLIENT: And there’s a host of things I’m leaving out that I did. I screamed at her in the car and just typical stuff I do. And this was a weird conversation with Marcia because I have no defense to it, I said how do I keep every time I think things are going along great I’m fucking ","P1-N400351":"it up. What’s going and she kind of suggested that, and of course I said I don’t even remember doing it and stuff, which is maybe you’ve been drinking too much. And so then I got off the phone with Marcia and called Laurel and apologized to Laurel. [00:08:06]
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:11:07] development, yes.
CLIENT: I figured out that I just don’t want Micah to win.
THERAPIST: She’s telling you not to drink?
CLIENT: All the time. [Laughs] So, but [00:11:22]
THERAPIST: How about this one, how about we don’t want Cameron to lose? That’s better than Micah not winning.
CLIENT: That would make me a non-winner. That’s what Marcia says to me when she beats me in Yahtzee. She says you’re not a loser; you’re a non-winner. Not that she always beats me in Yahtzee. Well, you know, it’s just semantics. But I’m rolling with things better. I had ","P1-N400471":"the kids a lot this weekend and I kind of rolled with that. The kids had their birthday party and Marcia didn’t, I wanted her to go but she didn’t want to go; she didn’t want that to be the first time she met Jess or whatever. Plus, old friend Erica was there and she wouldn’t ","P1-N400472":"even make eye contact with me, Jess’ old friend who said all those things about me and whose mom was crazy. Basically she wasn’t a help to me. Talked to her husband, no problems. She just wouldn’t make eye contact with me. [00:12:27]
THERAPIST: Just think of [inaudible at 00:12:28] win or losing. What I had in mind was as you’re saying with the drinking often you lose. That’s the point.
CLIENT: But I’m more concerned about -
THERAPIST: Yes, I know, Micah not winning.
CLIENT: Yes, because I don’t drink any more or any less. [Laughing] But, so things seem to be moving.
THERAPIST: Good, that’s great.
CLIENT: Like today -
THERAPIST: The work picking up has made a huge difference.
CLIENT: Yes. And I’ve been getting up every morning early, getting to the office or just today I just got up and I didn’t really even had a whole lot to do but at least it got me up and thinking and I did some things. And, last night I fell asleep on the couch watching Criminal Minds and ","P1-N400571":"woke up, whatever. But still I was up at 5:00. Sunday I was in bed all day, a week ago, because I was hung I was and I think I’m having this tendency, even though Saturday night I didn’t get really drunk I had a little buzz. I think I might’ve had a vodka drink when we got back ","P1-N400572":"to Marcia’s. But I just think by Sunday I’m so damn tired I literally slept all day and I stayed there Sunday night and just slept. I think that is part of just kind of being out of shape. That I’m doing a lot, I’m going upstairs, I’m trying to, I’m saying I might ","P1-N400573":"even try to work out. I don’t know. [00:14:09]
THERAPIST: Yes, just like I mean part of the way it seems like you’re, what feels to you to be having more work is that the world isn’t just fucking you over. And so when something happens that previously would’ve felt like the world fucking you over, doesn’t feel so much like ","P1-N4005F1":"that because things are happening too. [00:16:19]
CLIENT: Well, forget my laptop, all right I’ll work on my phone. Oh I have no battery. Oh, you know I forgot my firewire; it’s in my laptop bag. And oh I got to went to Staples, did some shopping, and I’ve still got some time and I said oh, Dr. Chad might have a actually I thought ","P1-N400611":"for sure you’d have one. So I went to Larry’s and started typing up a post for my Facebook page. But I spent all of my I don’t think I’m getting any business out of it but I got these clients who are buying a small condo. So I want to write them an e-mail kind of explaining ","P1-N400612":"what I think they should be prepared for. Now that e-mail is basically going to be my post. So I’m writing a post and I’m going to turn it into an e-mail and say hey go look at my post. [00:17:09]
THERAPIST: Doesn’t seem to me to be a big deal but I don’t know.
CLIENT: Yes. The big deal is that if someone’s giving me a retainer, the reason I never really set up credit cards before is because the money’s supposed to go into your trust account. But if they so you’re paying yourself for doing the work and if they dispute the charge, they pull ","P1-N400791":"that money out of your account. Well that’s your [inaudible at 00:26:57] account and that can, number one, bounce the account if the money’s not in there and number two, if the money’s not in there you’ve got to put the money in there. [00:27:05]
THERAPIST: Meaning?
CLIENT: Well, just -
THERAPIST: She means Jess or ?
CLIENT: Yes, that.
THERAPIST: Oh okay, yes, that I understand. I thought you meant just having dinner and that.
CLIENT: Yes, so it’s going to happen and I don’t know. Whatever. [Pause] And I haven’t even seen that this direct marketing thing is going to work. I’d like it too because the landlord-tenant stuff is not easy.
THERAPIST: The direct marketing for closings? [00:30:41]
CLIENT: Dollars, yes. There’s meeting realtors and very, what I think are -
THERAPIST: Yes, I just [inaudible at 00:30:51]
CLIENT: real intangibles but seller wraps are, you get a seller wrap every once in a while and you’ve earned your money. Or don’t earn it; you work more than, but most of them are a title. There’s no problem with title. Sometimes I feel ashamed for what I charge. That’s another ","P1-N400911":"thing. I’ve got these clients who bought a house. They fucked up the wetlands and they signed an agreement not to and they’re supposed to had fixed it. I get a call again from the attorney and I said listen, I’ll see if they want to hire me for this. [00:31:32]
THERAPIST: I’ll take the case, yes.
CLIENT: if I take the case to make sure I can pay. I know the woman’s mother does my taxes; she’s my CPA so she does my taxes. And that she can get a loan. But I don’t think I would’ve mentioned the retainer before. So, and stuck at the $195 for a while and now I’m worth ","P1-N400971":"more than that compared to what other attorneys are charging. And the Section 8 people, if they have to pay it’s only going to be $195 but when I ask them in court for money it’s going to be $225. So, I don’t know. Business seems to be going in the right direction and it’s ","P1-N400972":"but I’m working; I’ve got to work. [00:33:12]
THERAPIST: Right. It’s right to do the work [inaudible at 00:33:11].
CLIENT: Well yesterday I was even at the point where I had all this stuff to do and really wasn’t I did what I needed to. Got caught up with my titles, I’ve got a closing this month at the end of the month, a cash deal I’ve got to do the title for but I’ll do all that today. ","P1-N4009B1":"Make sure my people in April that they tell Bank of America use me as their closing attorney. And then make a letter. I really don’t have a whole lot to do. I’ve got some discovery on this one case but I want the first check from this guy first. So I don’t even feel there’s ","P1-N4009B2":"a point where I was feeling overwhelmed. Oh God, I’m busy; I’m going to be busy forever, blah, blah, blah. And last night as far as I thought well I’ll watch Criminal Minds. [inaudible at 00:34:02] watch Criminal Minds, there you go. [00:34:05]
THERAPIST: Wait, I’m confused. Have fun -
CLIENT: With Arya. Yes, and of course she was texting me all last night because she was watching the Housewives of Beverly Hill, I think with Arya though but that’s fine. Once handball starts out all hell’s going to break loose. I don’t know what I’m going to do.
THERAPIST: Are you going to juggle work, Marcia and handball?
CLIENT: And my workouts. I want to get there today if I can get on but probably should start seeing him now. There’s a chiropractor in the group and she does acupuncture as well. And I don’t know this might be a good opportunity she’s in north Westford. I can’t go to Essex ","P1-N400A51":"Court any more, it’s just but maybe she can start. And I need the chiropractor just to keep my back or whatever but there was one day where I was revved up, just fucking revved up. This was back when, years ago went to the chiropractor, we were trading some business and I mean when I left ","P1-N400A52":"that place I was so relaxed I was incapable of operating heavy machinery including a car. That’s how relaxed I was. Just shit. So I think there are things that physically even mentally that acupuncture can help with, even Crohn’s. [00:36:44]
THERAPIST: Crohn’s?
CLIENT: I’m wondering so maybe you can get me off some of the medication. I don’t know. I don’t know if Micah likes working with alternative. But that’s a scary proposition just to begin with because it’s easy to take a pill as oppose to scheduling an appointment. And ","P1-N400A91":"what do you do when you go on vacation? I don’t know. But she has huge tits. I’m not a boob guy either but the way she does she does some different technique adjusting the back where she grabs you from the front. A homely face but you know. Just I know I can’t smack her ass or grab ","P1-N400A92":"her boobs. [00:37:55]
THERAPIST: It will help if you’re not drinking hard alcohol before you go in there.
CLIENT: Oh, that’s not going to happen. So, yes I bought some beer; put some beer in Marcia’s fridge. That’s what I do when I go out. Everybody drinks beer. I don’t drink. When it’s boys’ night out, that’s, a couple guys on there love their bourbon and whiskey ","P1-N400AD1":"and real aficionados. But after a game everybody goes out for dinner, you have a beer maybe two beers. [00:38:30]
THERAPIST: Well I think also I’m sure it’s just partly the alcohol but it’s probably also if you ‘re feeling a little better things are picking up, it’s probably easier not to have to drink so much.
CLIENT: No, I enjoy it. [Laughing] I had a good time. And it was funny because we went to the concert and then we went to my friend Booty’s party, his 50th birthday party, and I talked to him yesterday -
THERAPIST: That what, you mentioned that last time.
CLIENT: and I talked to him yesterday and he’s trying to apologize. He said did I see you, did I talk to you? Man I was messed up. I said I know I saw you but I was pretty wasted too, so. But going to sell the condo. I feel like I can do without the $1,500 now. That’s a big thing. And ","P1-N400B51":"it’s another nice piece of business I can give Patricia. Jess doesn’t get the finances about this stuff. That’s what’s frustrating. I get the piece of paper that says we owe so much in taxes, $70,000 to the IRS, but we have a deal where we’ve got an offer of compromise ","P1-N400B52":"for much less. And I’m trying to explain to her that for that paper to get taken off we just have to pay what we owe the IRS, not the base amount on the and she doesn’t understand that. And someone’s advising her and telling her. [00:40:15]
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Can you give me a ride? Thanks for the juice.
THERAPIST: No problem.
CLIENT: Yes, 45%. All right. [inaudible at 00:44:21] depends on how drunk I get this weekend. [00:44:36]