TITLE: Client "Ju", Session January 3, 2013: Client discusses old friends, high school, encounters with racism, and trouble with emotional intimacy.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses old friends, high school, encounters with racism, and trouble with emotional intimacy.
THERAPIST: Yes. We should figure out how to deal with that. One unknown is whether Blue Cross would be I'm not sure if Blue Cross is going to send you checks, or whether they will send me checks. Their policy is that once a provider is no longer in network, they send checks to the patient. However, ","P1-N4000B1":"the whole thing over the summer where they terminated me... or patients with TP insurance, they kept paying me and not the patients directly. Which is against what they say they're going to do. I don't know what they're going to do. Because of that and because of Blue Cross. Which means I don't know ","P1-N4000B2":"how it's going to work.
CLIENT: Swiping? I don't get to swipe my card each week until we know where Blue Cross is sending the money.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: If that makes sense.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: So basically I would pay with swipe and then Blue Cross would send me the reimbursement.
THERAPIST: Right. So (pause) yeah, because of the recording, it would be...
CLIENT: [inaudible 00:02:09].
THERAPIST: Okay. It would then be I think $100 a visit, and then Blue Cross would reimburse you for whatever they reimburse. Probably $75.
CLIENT: Okay. (pause) Part of me [inaudible 00:02:38] to save money while...
THERAPIST: That would be better? Okay, sure. (pause) I don't have a credit card for you, but I think probably...
CLIENT: [inaudible 00:02:58].
THERAPIST: Yeah. Because it's let me think about that. Usually I don't take credit cards for larger amounts, just for like the $25 co-pay. It's worth it for the [inaudible 00:03:10], but when it's like $300 a week -
CLIENT: Oh, then you get fees.
THERAPIST: $100 bucks a month, then that winds up being like 3 percent I think. Which sorts of adds up.
CLIENT: So the other option would be you give me a bill every month.
THERAPIST: Right. Let me think about it, because I like the idea of just getting it done every week and not having to worry about a bill.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or every other yeah.
THERAPIST: Let me think about it. It might just be more convenient to do it that way, if that also works for you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I will (pause) I'll think about that.
CLIENT: Okay. (pause)
THERAPIST: Schedule-wise, as far as I can tell, we're meeting today and then we're on for our regular schedule.
CLIENT: Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I think I'm going to call the Disability Services office to know more about the week after that, like the 14th or 21st. (pause) I want to do a partial schedule, but I asked my physical therapist about it, and she was like, "Well, you know, you could work a half day or for three quarters ","P1-N400471":"of the day every day, but you might find that tiring. Or you could work a full day, three days a week, so you get a day off in between." I'm just sort of like, eh, I don't know. I just want to find out if I can do it without losing money.
THERAPIST: During high school?
CLIENT: Yeah. It was like I guess it must've been a little longer, because it was during part of summer camp and part other camp. Or vacation or something. Yeah. I was just kind of like, okay. So I ended up pulling out to read I never found the letter that Zoe sent me. But I found a big stash of ","P1-N400571":"letters that she'd written me when she was at camp, letters from my friend Jamie when she was at various camps, and letters from Emma when I was at camp, and then when she was at a private school for two years.
THERAPIST: Out of town?
CLIENT: No, it was that is kind of weird. It was local, but she boarded. Actually, that's a little weird, now that I think about it. I mean, it wasn't more than an hour away. (pause) Whatever.
THERAPIST: How old were you?
CLIENT: I think I was either 15 to 16.
THERAPIST: Huh. I'm sort of surprised you hadn't heard of anorexia at 15 or 16.
CLIENT: I didn't get it.
THERAPIST: Okay. That's different from not having heard of it.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I totally knew what it was. Like in a health class or magazines, they show you super emaciated people. And Jamie she has a round face and just like a little chin chub right here. What was very weird I realized she was anorexic when I saw her changing for gym, because then I could ","P1-N4006F1":"see her body. But her face actually never looked that thin. And she usually covered up a lot. She wore long sleeves. So (pause) yeah.
THERAPIST: That's awesome.
CLIENT: Yes. And then creepily, at the end, she mentioned her mother said all the beauties of the future will be African American. Her mom is creepy. So there's that.
THERAPIST: I guess I'm a little struck by the whole letter writing thing. But I guess it was a thing.
CLIENT: Also we were girls who went to camp. (laughs) Oh yeah. No. Yeah, so I went to Finland for a month every summer, or most summers, and there was Girl Scout Camp and various camps, and yeah, letter writing was huge. (pause) Which [inaudible 00:15:41] when I was looking through these, I'm like, ","P1-N4008D1":""Ah, never again will anyone be able to pull out a shoebox of incoherently scrawled letters."
THERAPIST: You didn't need to [inaudible 00:15:53]?
CLIENT: No, no. It struck me a little bit too, because I was just like wow, there's a lot.
THERAPIST: I see. Is this sort of in a shoving it in your face way?
CLIENT: No, it was more she was complaining that her mother wouldn't buy her any new clothes until she cleaned her room. But then after she cleaned her room, her mother was like, "Well, you already have clothes. [inaudible 00:19:52] there's clothes in your closet." There's something about the amount ","P1-N400A71":"of clothes that she wanted to get new, I was like, what?
THERAPIST: [inaudible 00:20:30]?
CLIENT: [inaudible 00:20:31] all these garage sales.
THERAPIST: Garage sales, indeed, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, which I did not think anything of than I loved my brother's hand-me-down clothes.
THERAPIST: Oh really?
CLIENT: Yeah, because I don't know, I really looked up to him and I thought they were cool. And (pause) also we both loved Oshkosh overalls, and they had really cool prints on them. So I could get his old printed... yeah. Sometimes I'd get his cool flannel shirt, whatever, which... yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, absolutely.
CLIENT: And no one was able to do that. It was very awkward, and no one the whole issue of her being burned in a fire, being convalescing, why they were in Philadelphia, it just wasn't talked about.
THERAPIST: So this is what she talked about, fairly soon after you...
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Yeah, probably like 20 minutes later, half hour later.
THERAPIST: Oh. Did it feel like she was communicating to you that she just couldn't talk about...
CLIENT: I wasn't sure. Part of me wonders if in the restaurant, she was just feeling really uncomfortable with what I was saying.
THERAPIST: In a way, it doesn't matter where she's coming from.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Maybe that's more important.
CLIENT: When she was talking about this with her family and I was sort of talking about my family, I felt like she was being like, "Yeah, we should try to be more" for me, I was hearing her as she wanted to be more open. She said she wanted to be more open with her family and for them to communicate ","P1-N400E11":"more. And I was saying my family doesn't sometimes, and so we were both saying how we wanted more I guess intimate communication with our families.
THERAPIST: That Emma never said that to you?
CLIENT: Zoe said that Emma had never said anything like that to her.
THERAPIST: Oh, meaning...
CLIENT: Emma never told Zoe that I had stolen her stuff.
THERAPIST: I see. So even if Zoe heard it sort of secondhand from somebody else, it's never something Emma said directly to her.
CLIENT: Right. Which I knew Emma never would. She would [inaudible 00:29:25] told Emma. She's not an idiot.
THERAPIST: That's not the point.
CLIENT: Exactly. It very much felt like she's just like, "He said, she said. Who knows what really happened." I told her an example, and she's like, "That sounds really awful."
THERAPIST: Told her an example of?
CLIENT: Which was like I came into our school newspaper classroom -
THERAPIST: Yeah, that was the okay.
CLIENT: Yeah. And she said, "That sounds really awful," but I don't know. I still felt like she was saying she was [inaudible 00:30:13], "Nobody said anything to me. No one else said anything to me." I don't know, [inaudible 00:30:21] a little more. What she was saying was her perception of what had ","P1-N401051":"happened was that I was just no longer getting along with Emma. Like our interests had changed; I just didn't feel like hanging out with her. [inaudible 00:30:50], she's like, "Zoe, that's what I wanted." And that she didn't understand how serious I felt this was until which I'd kind of [inaudible ","P1-N401052":"00:31:08] that.
THERAPIST: Zoe was?
CLIENT: Yeah. She's like, "Don't be mean to her. I can't believe you're so mean to her. I'm inviting you over, you can't control who I'm inviting." And I was just so devastated. It was so horrible. I actually really don't remember how Rita felt or react I just remember being miserable.
THERAPIST: With Rita, did you say?
CLIENT: Another girl Rita who was friends with all of us. But we all met Rita in high school, while I had known Zoe and Emma since elementary school. Also, Emma wanted to be friends with Rita to social climb, in a certain way. And Zoe had no memory of me writing her this letter or of her writing back. ","P1-N401131":"I told her, "Do you remember when I [inaudible 00:32:48] this letter?" and she says, "No." No memory of it. Which yeah, to me, I was like, that was a huge thing.
THERAPIST: Ouch.
CLIENT: Yeah, she didn't apologize. The closest was she said at first, she's like, "Well, I didn't understand that this was serious and important to you."
THERAPIST: Right. There's not a falling out there, but...
CLIENT: Yeah, there was just a series of "huh." (pause) And for me, I just to go from me talking, for us, for trying to talk about what to me was a super traumatic event to her being like, "Oh, segue, you know that guy that..." You know?
THERAPIST: Right. Like in the sense of, "Oh, I've kind of got to equate these two things," which has a completely different degree of significance for you.
CLIENT: Right. And also, it was indicating that I have -
THERAPIST: Indicating it again, that I really have no idea how much that matters to you.
CLIENT: Yeah. It also felt to me like this weird backhanded attempt to be like, "Well, when I didn't believe you, I was inconsiderate. In this totally different situation 15 years later, I'm being considerate."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I don't care. (pause) The other thing which we were walking and she was talking about a friend of hers who she was going to meet later for dinner, and that he had a really hard time getting over rejection. And she's not listening [inaudible 00:37:27]. Oh, no, what it was is we were talking ","P1-N401371":"about how neither of us had dated until senior year of high school. We'd gone with friends to our junior prom. And I mentioned that yeah I was like, yeah, I had this awkward, awful experience of trying to ask some friends to a dance or a prom, whatever, and having them all say "We can't go to the ","P1-N401372":"dance together because you're black and I'm white, and that just can't happen," in various ways and shapes of saying that. And her response was she was very shocked, she said, "No, that can't be, blah blah blah blah."
THERAPIST: Like, that just could never happen.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I'm like, yes, I get that it is shocking. I was shocked at the time. It wasn't that she was saying -
THERAPIST: "I found it unbelievable, but it didn't mean I didn't believe it."
CLIENT: Yeah. It was [inaudible 00:38:44]. I just was kind of like, "Do you think I'm exaggerating? Do you think I'm lying? Or are you just uncomfortable with the realization that racism existed in our high school?" I mean, I knew from a previous experience that she was super uncomfortable with one ","P1-N401411":"of the various kids at [inaudible 00:39:07] high school who was also Jewish.
THERAPIST: Right, right. That's sort of a different thing.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was too. (pause) But that, so...
THERAPIST: Right. Well, in addition to that it happened, like, what the fuck, you're her close friend; tell her what happened to you, when you were there. With multiple people.
CLIENT: Yeah, and they're also the guys that I was talking about were dancing with all people.
THERAPIST: I imagine they were people you were friendly enough with to want to ask them to the dance.
CLIENT: Yeah. And they were also people that [inaudible 00:40:33] both Zoe and I knew them, both of us probably had crushes on them in various points in -
THERAPIST: This walk sounds horrible.
CLIENT: It really was. It was really -
THERAPIST: As you describe most of it, but horrible.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was also really disappointing.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure.
CLIENT: Part of it felt kind of surreal in that I was like, this is really not compassionate or kind or how I think a best friend would treat me.
THERAPIST: Right. There's not even any charge to it in the sense of it's not like you're 16 or even 18 and this just happened. It's not like she's going to be in class with all these people tomorrow.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like Jamie saying that she at the time thought it was fucked up but didn't she's like, "I didn't know what to do." And I totally get that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah. (pause) Yeah, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you [inaudible 00:42:03] like that.
CLIENT: It really was. And she had the I know she's super busy at work, etc., etc., but she hasn't [inaudible 00:42:18] since. And while it's not uncommon for us to go for awhile without talking, I kind of feel like we had this kind of intense conversation, to me. Even though it may be a a something. ","P1-N4016F1":"But (pause) I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm sorry we ran out.
CLIENT: That's okay. I thought I had some in here, but I don't. (pause) On one hand, she's not (pause) she's not a local friend, etc., etc., but (pause) I have been really worried about having this conversation with her for a long time, and haven't wanted to.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think you mentioned it to me. Not just what happened with her, but the risk involved in talking with her about it.
CLIENT: Yeah. I also think about how sometimes I wonder and want to find out in a way where I don't have to do it I wonder what my classmates (pause) what my classmates thought our high school was like, racially. (pause)