TITLE: Client "Ju", Session February 19, 2013: Client is nervous about housing situation and frustrated with work and employment prospects.
DESCRIPTION: Client is nervous about housing situation and frustrated with work and employment prospects.
CLIENT: I'm going back to work tomorrow, part-time. Which I'm super stressed and freaked out about. I mean, so they called Friday morning at 9:30 to tell me this. Why can't we have lead time, but okay. Yeah, it was (pause) it was a very frustrating conversation with Disability Services [inaudible 00:00:51] ","P1-N4000B1":"in that basically it seemed like when they had the meeting, everyone was like, "Yeah, sure. Okay, that's fine."
THERAPIST: Which... I think I'm not remembering what you're referring to from before.
CLIENT: Oh, when I was out from fibroid surgery?
THERAPIST: Right, I remember that, yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. So oh my God, such a nightmare. So they (pause) I had sort of mentally been like, okay, I think I want to [inaudible 00:04:47] and I was like okay, I think maybe I need to leave work, stop doing work in like a week or two. And then one day, I was like, nope, I mean by the end of this week.
THERAPIST: Yes, I remember.
CLIENT: And then the same woman, when I was coming back, said it was impossible for me to return on a part-time schedule. That no one could do that, that was completely insane. And (pause) we had a lot of back and forth, and I'm like, "I'm not sure if I can work full-time yet," and she's like, "Well, ","P1-N400291":"you have to be sure." "I won't know until I try." She was just very unhelpful, and also...
THERAPIST: And really dismissive, I gather.
CLIENT: Yeah, very dismissive and very much like it felt to me like she was like, "You're shirking." (pause) And then when I decided to come back to work, to arrange it, I come in and then she was really angry because I hadn't gone through the official return to work process, like get a note from ","P1-N4002F1":"your doctor and blah blah blah blah blah. She's like, "Legally, you shouldn't be able to step foot in this building" and was really angry about it, and I'm like, "You didn't tell me. I didn't know." (pause) For a couple hours, it was unclear to me and to my manager's like, "Can I even be in the building? ","P1-N4002F2":"Should I go in now? Or what's going on?" Eventually it got sort of resolved. But it was super [inaudible 00:07:13].
THERAPIST: Yeah, and (pause) incredibly stressful and anxious, it sounds like.
CLIENT: Yeah. And the combination of requests that I made and I now know were not made as actual disability combination requests, which have to be listened to, but rather as basically doctor suggestion. So (pause) just like everything was done wrong. So I'm trying to not freak out, but (pause) I'm ","P1-N400351":"just really nervous. Very...
THERAPIST: Sorry, this is did you wind up signing on that apartment Thursday?
CLIENT: No, we lost it by like 15 minutes. Yeah, it was so (pause)...
THERAPIST: Ouch.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's awful.
CLIENT: Yeah, and what's frustrating is also the realtor I was talking with I guess had no perception or thought that it would go that fast. Normally [inaudible 00:09:09], and he says, "No, tomorrow's fine, whatever. And [inaudible 00:09:17] would be better." Ashby's like, "Can I just do it tomorrow?", ","P1-N400451":"because she had had a long day, and then...
THERAPIST: That's terrible.
CLIENT: But then I forgot because Ashby now makes almost the same amount of money as I do. When we first moved in together, she made like $3,000 less than I made or something like that, and now she makes (pause) $400 less.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry I meant to tell you at the beginning, I forgot. The mention of money reminded me. As of now, I network for Blue Cross, the process is supposed to be getting reimbursement to you directly and then I bill you; however, while it appears they are doing that for patients I see who ","P1-N4004D1":"don't have Blue Cross either they're just like, the pattern seems to be that for patients who have insurance, they're paying me. That's not what they're supposed to be doing.
CLIENT: Huh. So have they paid you?
THERAPIST: I haven't actually gotten any money from them yet.
CLIENT: Weird.
THERAPIST: But I got a notification, which I usually get, indicating that they're going to deposit in my bank account tomorrow, and then I can see that's the usual matter of course on the network, and I can see who it's for.
CLIENT: I appreciate that, because I have not yet overcome Blue Cross Mutual being on hold. (laughs) Just tap out, it's too much.
THERAPIST: Yeah. So I will call them tomorrow. I'll have some time. (pause) We may we will, no doubt, have other things to talk about when we meet tomorrow, but either we spend two minutes on it or we can talk next week, whatever you want. But I just found out today, so I wanted to let you know.
CLIENT: Probably I would say [inaudible 00:11:52] tomorrow would be...
THERAPIST: Okay. Yeah, sure. Whatever you want. So the apartment. Yeah, sorry, I -
CLIENT: That's okay. No, I'm just like and so when he asked for paystubs and bank confirmation, I was looking at Ashby's paystub, and I'm like -
THERAPIST: Sorry, this is like a pre-approval, sort of?
CLIENT: Yes. What they do is that basically they just do a credit check, in reality. But it's like you pre-file all the paperwork so that when you move in with the check, you're like, "And this is all done. Bam." And (pause) Ashby was forced to sheepishly admit that she was making as much money as ","P1-N400691":"I did. She said, "Well, you must be making more." I'm like, "No. I don't get a raise unless I change jobs. Which means, no, I haven't gotten a raise in five years. I get the union-mandated whatever, penny increase every year." That's it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I have a ride arranged and blah blah blah, but I'm super stressed and I don't want to go and I'm going to end up also the first day will be like, everyone shouting my name which is stressful, and I'll be in my new space, which is a cube shared with Chet, Harry won't be there that time ","P1-N400711":"and a revolving array of students. Which is not (pause) how I enjoy working. To me, that's a very stressful work environment. (pause) So that's going to be happening too.
THERAPIST: This is the Dean for -
CLIENT: Cambridge created a Dean for Diversity.
THERAPIST: Okay, so like the whole university.
CLIENT: Whole university. Created the position two or three years ago.
THERAPIST: Huh.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's like, "Good job," I guess. It's back because they had a Dean of Faculty Diversity or something like that, but this is meant to address everyone.
THERAPIST: I see, including students, faculty, staff.
CLIENT: Yeah. And probably, theoretically, contractor. So I sent him a chatty e-mail and then also mentioned, "I'm just so frustrated with this thing, blah blah blah blah."
THERAPIST: Right. What does a good outcome look like?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't want to shebang myself up if something's going to happen, and he was like, "No, I think you should do it."
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah, it makes me feel like a hospital that says, "Oh, we do these kinds of surgeries and those kinds of surgeries, but these require cardiology [inaudible 00:24:23] and the primary care doesn't, so let's shrink primary care and do some cardiology and specialize" and stuff like that.
CLIENT: Exactly. It's also one of those things where someone asked me, why aren't faculty up in arms? I'm like, people always fight faculty [inaudible 00:24:42] they want, so they haven't noticed this yet. And for classes, we'll always buy books for classes. [inaudible 00:24:55] faculty probably aren't ","P1-N400B31":"going to notice for a little bit, because they can still get a request specifically.
THERAPIST: You mean like if those people were adding value, then actually you're losing money?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Or adding more value than they cost?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's hard to go buy books when they're out of print. [inaudible 00:26:27] for the first two years of publishing. Some of the cuts they're making once a book is mis-shelved in the library [inaudible 00:26:38], it's gone. If the [inaudible 00:26:42] is wrong or something is wrong, and ","P1-N400C11":"they've contracted a lot of that out till it looks better.
THERAPIST: A lot of the shelving?
CLIENT: No, weirdly, the creation and labeling of barcodes. So putting a call number on the spine, and sometimes putting the barcode on too. So if random contractor person screws it up because they're under time pressure, it's gone. That's it.
THERAPIST: Sorry, I think I'm losing you a little bit here. You're talking about the increase in the more profit-oriented thinking about the library?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And the way that some of that is short-term thinking could cause a problem. But I guess I'm [inaudible 00:28:17] that you were relating this to talking to the Dean for Diversity and that, but I -
CLIENT: Oh, no. The short-term profit cuts, I think of when I'm thinking generally. When I talk about the problem that I'm having at work to whomever, that's part of it. And (pause) when it's actually more directly the thing that the concept of the value that's being lost [inaudible 00:29:05] is ","P1-N400D31":"something I think about.
THERAPIST: 20 years is a lot of years of Internet.
CLIENT: Yeah, it is. It's a hard thing to present on one's resume, especially since a lot of that time was spent on things I don't want [inaudible 00:30:06]. I just don't really feel like discussing doing six years of online sex education. [inaudible 00:30:16] potential employer, or a bazillion other things.
THERAPIST: [inaudible 00:31:50].
CLIENT: Yeah. Well not even that. Like Delicious, which was social -
THERAPIST: Yeah, social networking.
CLIENT: Yeah, that tanked hard and fast. And I was a huge user of it. I'd been talking about it to all my library staff, and so I was like, "Sorry Reddit." (laughs) It tanked and then it got bought, stripped of its functionality and other awesome things.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I'm hearing a few different things. The first one, the one you're maybe [inaudible 00:34:22] is you're terrified of going back to work tomorrow.
CLIENT: I am.
THERAPIST: For a few different reasons. Partly because you have visions of your previous reentry, which are terrifying, and partly because of your new work environment, and partly because going back to work means you'll be back at work, where all these horrible things have happened again and again and ","P1-N400FB1":"again and again and again. And (pause)...
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think one of my fears well, it's kind of a huge fear is the (pause)...
THERAPIST: Yeah, because you really want much more than I think to quit.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I really (pause) I don't literally think by meeting with the Dean of Diversity or whoever means like the meeting goes well or I quit, but emotionally, it feels like I made a big threat and they shrugged. And so (pause) [inaudible 00:40:50]. Something that's also going, all the crap ","P1-N401191":"of doing apartment application includes all this financial information, what jobs you've worked, etc., etc.
THERAPIST: It's very difficult. I mean, those are pretty awesome benefits. Hard to walk away from.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's...
THERAPIST: It's like you know. And yet on the other hand, if the job is making you miserable all the way, [inaudible 00:42:01] you.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, it's one of those things where I'm like, I don't in terms of benefits, which blah blah blah, how much those benefits are worth, all these things, it's unlikely that I would get another job that would basically be, benefits-wise, where I am right now. Not even just because I've ","P1-N401271":"been working for Cambridge for 15 years, which is horrible, but just what I got walking in the door at 21.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's a lot.
CLIENT: Yeah. The only thing that would be better is I think [inaudible 00:43:00] has somewhat unlimited vacation.
THERAPIST: [inaudible 00:43:05].
CLIENT: Yeah, weirdly, most of the time people end up taking less vacation than they actually, at least theoretically, are allowed, because they feel bad about it. And I know too many people who are [inaudible 00:43:22], and they try to be around every three to five years, so you don't get stuck in ","P1-N401311":"one position and stagnate. My benefits are better than theirs, still. I'm just like so I feel like...
THERAPIST: When would you start doing it? Because I know people, after 20 years, get paid out of half their salary or something for the rest of their lives. Or is that a different thing?
CLIENT: I have no idea. I started getting stressed out about it and [inaudible 00:43:53] away. But yeah, I was just looking at "you're vested after this," and then there's some other kind of vesting after that, and I'm like and the day that you became vested was for these blah and blah, like five ","P1-N401351":"years ago, eight years ago. I'm like, okay, I guess. I don't know. Something.
THERAPIST: The thing that occurs to me, and this may have come up once awhile ago, is it seems to me it's pretty unclear what your alternatives would be. If your alternative is a (pause) similar work function in a library at a different university where the benefits wouldn't be as great and obviously ","P1-N401431":"the clock would start over, but the environment would be better, that's one thing.
CLIENT: Yeah, and part of the other problem is that I got to the point where I am IT-wise without having any of the certification or other bullshit that most people have to because I came in when everyone was .com-ing and leaving. So they were like, "Well, warm bodies, yay." I could never get my [inaudible ","P1-N401491":"00:48:20] job again, I don't think.
THERAPIST: Well, but you've done it.
CLIENT: Right, that's the thing. It's frustrating, because I'm like, I've done it, which matters, except that I need someone to look at my resume to look at that. Do you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: [inaudible 00:48:40] where it wouldn't look past the lack of certifications to your job experience?
CLIENT: Yeah. And for some jobs, the job listing is like blah, like "should be..."
THERAPIST: I think we went over this once before, this type of thing, and I maybe presumptuously became very skeptical of [inaudible 00:49:08] to me, like you were just talking yourself out of ever being able to get a job anywhere, ever again.
CLIENT: It's hard, because I think I'm employable. I think what's frustrating is if companies are using like [inaudible 00:49:28] a librarian who doesn't have X qualification, which is totally common.
THERAPIST: Yeah, but I imagine often people's first job when they switch roles, I think is either because they're going back to school or because they had a contact, somebody who goes, "You're really smart in what you can do," and more of other kind of things you do in your spare time, would probably ","P1-N4015B1":"hire you in a way that somebody who's got 200 resumes sitting on their desk probably wouldn't.
CLIENT: Yeah. I did a couple. (pause) I think you made some comment like how I know [inaudible 00:50:16] librarians or something, or maybe it's like I know a person every city, because I probably do. Extended friend of a friend. I was like, okay, maybe I will try looking at some of the librarian group ","P1-N4015F1":"things. And (pause) I don't know. I'm having a hard time being like, am I depressed? I think not really going anywhere, and in a couple months when it's not February and I'm not doing all these things, will that get me somewhere? You know, I just feel like, ugh. And yeah.
THERAPIST: We've got to stop for now. But I know there's a lot more to talk about. I'm not trying to push you to move any way; I just...
CLIENT: Yeah. No, I understand, I'm just sort of... [inaudible 00:51:31].
THERAPIST: Good luck tomorrow.
CLIENT: Thank you very much.
THERAPIST: Yeah. See you tomorrow.
CLIENT: Okay.