TITLE: Client "J", Session March 1, 2013: Client talks about work, parenting, finances, and relationship with spouse.
DESCRIPTION: Client talks about work, parenting, finances, and relationship with spouse.
CLIENT: Words with Friends, in the release notes, they always say how they've improved the performance and every time it gets worse. So, I feel like ass this morning. I ate Chinese food for dinner. And if I got in bed I would eat only one of the chicken wings and one of the egg rolls and half of the ","P1-N4000B1":"boneless spareribs and I would save that for later and either eat it that night or the next day, but I ate it all in one sitting. It was a very stressful day yesterday.
THERAPIST: I guess so.
CLIENT: I had my small claims trial for the security deposit with (inaudible) at 9. I was supposed to have a closing in Merrimac at one and luckily my 4:00 that was actually going to be signed yesterday isn't closing, but I don't get paid, so I guess it's not that fortunate.
THERAPIST: You mean you have to stop by Pembroke. [00:02:00]
CLIENT: I've got to go back to Pembroke. 45 minutes.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Pick up the documents and then another 45 minutes to Merrimac.
THERAPIST: Isn't that just like north shore? I don't know.
CLIENT: Well, there...
THERAPIST: I mean, I know you know how far it is. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's not all highways is the reason why.
THERAPIST: Oh, I see. Okay.
CLIENT: So, I'm like oh, fuck. You know.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I tried to do some work. I did a little bit on work prepping for the trial the night before and then I left the office and, you know, left until I got up early in the morning yesterday and my printer wasn't printing things out right. You know, it, it was kind of overkill, but, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But, at least I knew what I was going to talk about. So, you know, we get to court and, you know, talked a little bit with the other lawyer about settlement and we seemed to be far apart. At like 10:00, the magistrate comes in and she's like we have an awful lot of restraining orders this morning ","P1-N4002D1":"that we have to split up and I'm not going to be able to get to, you know, to what we call the list. You know, we were one of the first ones on the list.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:03:20]
CLIENT: And, I was like, oh, do you think we will get done early? She's like well, it's going to be an hour before we can hear your, your case. Minimum of an hour.
THERAPIST: Which is longer than what you thought.
CLIENT: Right. So, this is like going from I'm thinking our case would be heard by like 10:30, 11:00 where she wants to get started at 11:00, which in court time means 11:30. You know.
THERAPIST: Oh, I see.
CLIENT: So, at like 10:30, basically, we were looking for originally for $7,500. $6,500 of that is treble damages for the security deposit.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: The rest of the money is my fee and costs.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I actually came in with a higher number that I was going to give to the judge. It probably would have been knocked off a little bit, but, you know, I was happy making, you know, a, you know, a thousand bucks or $850 minus the $150 filing fee. So, we negotiated and they, they had some claims ","P1-N400411":"against us which they couldn't bring in this action, but they can bring in a subsequent action and one of them was oil. I was like well, you've got to choose the oil. They were like yeah. So, it's like, you know, you owe probably $800 of the $850 worth of oil.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:04:35]
CLIENT: So, let's at least give up that. We'll give up, you know, $500 from my fee, which, you know, was just padding anyways.
THERAPIST: So, you get paid $400?
CLIENT: Well, I had a retainer of a thousand.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So, I would say I've already got my money. I'm satisfied.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So, whatever we get, the whole bit goes to you.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But, you have to subtract a thousand for the attorney's fees. Because really what they're looking for is the $6,500.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, when you subtract the $800 from the $6,500, you get...
THERAPIST: $5,700.
CLIENT: $5,700. And, we ended up, so, we proposed, you know, giving up because what, their, what their argument was they gave part of the security deposit back. So, even though I think the argument was incorrect they're making that they only get. So, $700 goes to the tenant and they're claiming only ","P1-N4005D1":"a thousand gets treble damages. So, that's $3,000.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I'm saying the whole $1,700.
THERAPIST: $1,700. [00:05:45]
CLIENT: Because the way the statute is worded, it says the security deposit, not the amount not returned.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: If you have had actual damages to deduct, then it would make a difference.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But, they, deductions were not damages. They were not allowed. So, I was, I explained that to them. So, we finally came in. Originally, we, we said $6,500 and then we came in at $5,700 and they came back at $4,000. So, I said to my clients, you know, you are basically giving up $1,700 to just ","P1-N4006D1":"get money within 30 days, you know, and, so, we ended up settling for $4,000. Of course, this is right after 10:30 when I e-mailed the other lawyer and my clients that we're not going to be able to close at 1:00. You know, and I'm thinking late in the day. I'm thinking like 3:00. You know, I'm thinking ","P1-N4006D2":"I'm going to be stuck at this, you know, court house forever. So, we settled and that big stress was gone. It was really weird because like when I first got there I was kind of nervous and my, my legs. I think, I don't know if it was from the medication and me being nervous and anxious or whatever, ","P1-N4006D3":"but I could not stop my legs from shaking and I'm like this looks really professional, you know. So, I was a little disappointed because once again I wanted to actually argue the thing, but I was very happy because I'm out of there. [00:07:05]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And my clients don't have to worry about paying me. That was my fear is that, you know, they were going to have to end up pay me and not really get anything, but, you know, for, you know, instead of getting $1,700 they're getting $3,000.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, not bad. I mean, they were, they were, they were really getting $3,800, because that they paid for their oil. So, which I said you are going to have to pay for anyways.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, they were somewhat happy. Somewhat, you know, whatever and I get back to the office with plenty of time and waited. So, I had a couple e-mails. I called my clients and said let's close at 2:00. I called the attorney and said let's close at 2:00. It's now 3:00. I'm nervous, you know, of course, ","P1-N400791":"what's going to go wrong on my, my drive back to Pembroke was that UPS wasn't going to leave the package.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:08:10]
CLIENT: That they were going to leave a note instead of sliding it under the door like they usually do. So, I'm freaking out about that the whole ride back. I get there. No slip under the door.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: So, you know, that stress is gone and I have actually had plenty of time. I go and I actually deposit my checks for the closing. I've got the money and so I'm like paying myself before the closing. Fixed the doc. He added a point on some document and whatever and, you know, still had plenty ","P1-N400811":"of time. Got to the registry at like quarter until two. The other lawyer showed up early. Got all her documents signed. It's three mortgages we're doing. So, it gets to like 3:00 and we still have the whole set of the documents to sign and I'm like well, let's go get on record and not piss off the land ","P1-N400812":"court showing up at quarter to four. They won't take us anyways.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:09:05]
CLIENT: So, there's like a nice lady and a mean guy and you want to get the nice lady. In fact, the lawyer had taken the documents, not the mortgage, but all the other documents to the lady to have her review them to make sure everything's okay. I walk over and, of course, it's the guy and he's like ","P1-N400851":"it's going to be a while. It's like oh, great. Then the lady comes out and she's like Empire Drive and I'm like yeah. And, then she's like you've got so many documents here. This is a record for me as far as filing fees on one single family home. $1,125.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: So, she, you know, she's like, you know, since you've got so many documents here I will give you a pre-certified copy of the deed and I was like oh, yeah. So, that all, you know, but I was just, I was just so exhausted. I mean that worked out. Because, you know, my concern is that they've got ","P1-N400891":"cars and vans and whatever full of stuff, ready to move in. But, if we didn't get on record, they wouldn't have been able to move in to the next day. So, we're running up against the 4:00. You know, so, that's going through my mind the whole day. So, it's like alright. We're done. We got on record. ","P1-N400892":"They're happy. [00:10:25]
THERAPIST: Let's not get crazy.
CLIENT: Yeah. So, yeah, but a crazy day and it's like I almost, I, I spent so much energy focused on the day, you know, is it all going to work out? Is the timing going to work out? You know. And, so, the whole week I'm thinking I've got like a crazy week, you know, and it really wasn't that crazy. ","P1-N4008F1":"It was just, you know, focusing on that and now it's finally done and now I feel like, you know, there's nothing to do. I'm going to the office like this today. I'm going to try to pick up Seamus and I don't know. [00:12:00]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And, it actually came in that we were getting money back. A dollar from the state and like $1,400 from the feds.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's great.
CLIENT: It's great, except when you're on a payment plan. They don't give you that money.
THERAPIST: They keep it?
CLIENT: They apply it towards your outstanding balance.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So, yeah, we made up a dollar with the state and, you know, $1,400 with the feds who are giving us a break anyways being the reducing our whatever.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But, the good thing is that it shows that we're making less money. So, it's, it looks better for financial aid.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah. Right. [00:13:00]
CLIENT: And, the same thing for the IRS. They can't say well, you know, they're, they're bullshitting us, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And, I was just, I was even wondering to myself if they were waiting until we filed. Are you nervous about your iPad there with your coffee?
THERAPIST: Not until that you mentioned it.
CLIENT: Okay. I am. So, that was...
THERAPIST: I could put the iPad on the window sill. Would you like that?
CLIENT: It's up to you. It's your iPad. I'm not going to buy you a new one if I get coffee all over. Do you have Apple care?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: Well, then it would definitely be your fault. You get one free swap out for accidental stupidity. So, there are taxes that much is, you know, surprising how much, how little money I made last year. You know. It's just, you know, there's a lot of expenses, which, you know, I pay, you know, the ","P1-N400B91":"lawyer. The accountant. So, it's like we have a complicated situation, but it just doesn't involve a lot of money. You know. I mean our, you know, it was a 22 megabyte pdf of our taxes and all the worksheets and everything in there, you know. A partnership. Two separate businesses now. Two rental properties, ","P1-N400B92":"which if we do not get financial aid, is going to be because of the rental properties because we're not paying mortgages against them.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:14:35]
CLIENT: So, it's free income, you know. I don't care. You know. If, I kind of prefer Ian not go to that school because they're not going to move to Springfield.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: And, that's going to be a longer, you know, trip for me.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Jess's trying to think of ways to stay in the house, you know. On the other hand, I like the school. I think, you know, he'll do well there. You know, I think it will calm him down a little bit because he'll, just, they, just, you know, they, they have classes outside and they go on hikes and, ","P1-N400C51":"you know. The kids just get more oxygen than, you know, the five minute recess or whatever he gets. You know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, I have jury duty on the 12th if you want to reschedule. We don't have to do it today. You seem hesitant. In Groton. Do you know where Groton is?
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's just before you fall off.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. Next town over.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:15:50]
CLIENT: But, the only thing that could be going on in Groton District Court is OUI's. It's going to be all drunk driving cases and domestic abuse. You know. It's like white trash here we come. You know. I pray to God that I don't get put on the jury. They ask you on the questionnaire. I tried to postpone ","P1-N400D11":"it, but I guess they wouldn't let me because I blew it off last time. So, the last question on the, on the questionnaire is, is there any other reason you find you might be impartial? I just want to put on there Groton sucks. Or, I'm pissed off because I have to drive from Cambridge to Ayer at 9:00 ","P1-N400D12":"in the morning for some stupid OUI case. I should put something like that on there and just never take anything where I have to be in the District Court of Groton. [00:17:00]
THERAPIST: That's a long way.
CLIENT: Yeah. I regret leaving Huntington. And, I know it is, but it's like it's hard to even think of Groton as Lowell, you know. I think it might have had one closing out there. Like, a cheap, trashy condo or something. You know, I, like, when I left the, the court, I just wanted to talk to someone ","P1-N400D71":"and I wanted, you know, I had a very stressful day. I just wanted to, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And there's no one to call. So, I was going to call Jess about, you know, about the kids. [00:18:50]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And, I get stuck on the, the phone with her. I mean she just won't shut up. Complaining about this and that. You know, from death to divorce cases and nobody paying her and this. Yeah. I've heard this so many times, you know and I just.
THERAPIST: I think you miss me, J, at least that's what happened.
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm like, this is a huge mistake. I should just suffer. I spend so much time in the car. You know, it's just I mean it would be nice to have someone to call.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I reviewed my match.com profile. That's going to be on there. Sometimes I just need someone to talk to. Like, every day. I used to have a dog, but now I don't. He was a good listener. He'd have his head on his lap, looking up at you lovingly. Didn't go on some tirade about how his clients suck ","P1-N400E71":"and his business sucks and he doesn't get paid. You know. And, I, I have to bite my tongue while I don't turn away business, even if it sucks.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:20:30]
CLIENT: I don't even think I would do anything today if I didn't have to get these files back to the lender. In fact, I'm, there's no reason to, but I'm going to the office, just to see if I can get some extra work done while I'm there, you know, until I need to pick up Ian. I guess my speed is working. ","P1-N400EB1":"And, work yesterday though. I was exhausted. I could have gone to bed at 3:00.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Well, the anxiety really wore you out. [00:21:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. It's funny. Normally, you know, getting up at 5:00 in the morning is no big deal. I just got to go to the, the bathroom and I'm up at 5 and 6 and 7 or whatever and when my alarm went off at 5:00, I was actually sleeping, which is kind of weird. It wasn't a complete lack of sleep. You know. ","P1-N400EF1":"Just, the stress, yeah. Anxiety and working late. I kind of worked on something I didn't have to work on when I could have been putting, you know, my presentation together. You know. I just wanted to get it out of the way which is a new concept for me. I delayed one thing. Procrastinated on that, but...
THERAPIST: Instead you did something else. [00:22:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't have a whole lot of closings in the pipe line, you know, like I did. Like, I have a couple. Hopefully, this summer really picks up. They put me back on membership committee in P and I and I've already got one guy that I interviewed yesterday and a life insurance person's left. ","P1-N400F31":"So, we had like 11 visitors yesterday. Mostly life insurance people. So, we have to interview all those people who apply, and, you know, and then we're going to have our big kick off at Essex, which means I've got to interview all the new people there too. I'm not real happy. I let the woman who left ","P1-N400F32":"know I wasn't happy about that. But, you know, pretty much everybody in the group is on leadership team. You know, there's no, no office staff. I think we may even have stuff we don't even have people to do. [00:24:00]
THERAPIST: I think something's going on here in that you're.
CLIENT: You're just trying to find something somewhere to latch on to. Go ahead. Sorry.
THERAPIST: You, sort of, the way things actually went well yesterday. I mean, they ended up quite well.
CLIENT: It always happens like that too. [00:25:00]
THERAPIST: And, you're in really good shape in a bunch of ways. Like with taxes, and, but that kind of focused a lot more on the stress, the, you know, like some things are going badly or that you're concerned about like with P and I. Or, like they're a pain in the ass. Like driving to Groton. Though ","P1-N400FD1":"part of the bigger stuff is going pretty well I mean that you're talking about today. It's like it doesn't register or something. Or, even, you felt so, like, kind of stressed and depleted last night, although, again, things had ended quite well and I'm not sure if that's just kind of the stress hang ","P1-N400FD2":"over from the day or, or if it's because there was something that. I mean what it starts to sound like is there's something that makes you anxious about things going well or actually working out. [00:26:30]
CLIENT: This is news to you? I might have mentioned this before.
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: How I kind of, you know, expect things to go bad.
THERAPIST: Well, expecting it to go bad is one thing, but being anxious when they go well is something else. [00:27:00]
CLIENT: I don't know. It's like going from, there's, it's just, it's such a mood swing. You know, to go from being so stressed out to what should be relief that I'm finding something worrisome in the relief. You know?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's like, you know, now I'm focusing on I only have a couple of closings. You know, just...
THERAPIST: Yeah. That's what I'm saying. That there's something uncomfortable about the relief.
CLIENT: I mean part of it is Chinese food, but...
THERAPIST: Although, again...
CLIENT: That was my reward. I was rewarding myself.
THERAPIST: But, it wasn't just that. I mean, you were eating because you were really stressed out because you ate more than you usually would to make you feel better.
CLIENT: But, I had food at home. It's not like I had to go out.
THERAPIST: Right. It's just the qualities you talked about it that you are also doing it to calm yourself down. [00:28:30]
CLIENT: Spring hat registration is next week.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Soccer starts April 6th. I have a coach's meeting next week. All the board members have committee. I have been kicked off financial committee three times now.
THERAPIST: Is this at the farm?
CLIENT: The farm, yeah. And, usually, the membership committee is involved in recruiting board members. It's like, oh, gee, the thing I hate the most. You know. Talking to people. And, then it was like, you know, exhaustion and whatever, anxiety, enough that I canceled going to see the kids. [00:30:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know, I didn't think I could handle that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess I had the idea that you wouldn't have been quite as stressed and overwhelmed if something had gone badly or you were hung up with something. I could be wrong about that. But, I guess, that's the question. Right, is like, if something got fucked up with the closing and you didn't ","P1-N401291":"get the document or some document you needed or...
CLIENT: Well, I'm running all of those scenarios in my head. You know. That's kind of what I'm expecting to happen. [00:31:00]
THERAPIST: Right. But, it didn't and you, I'm not sure that, it's unclear to me whether you felt relieved that it didn't or if there was something stressful about actually. I mean, I don't know, maybe you were just so keyed up about the whole thing. The whole day. It usually wasn't that everything went ","P1-N4012D1":"smoothly. It's just that you were so immersed in this sort of feeling that you were in the middle of a catastrophe. [00:32:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like I am getting busy now with all this stuff that is non-work related. Which is, I don't know. I guess, some ambivalence about that, but it will ultimately cause stress. You know, getting to Friday night soccer practice and, you know, the kids not listening to me. I get to spend ","P1-N4012F1":"the day in Groton and then I get a nice board meeting after that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I, I just had the thought that like you're complaining about Jess who was talking about this. All this stuff that was going on with her and you were having to having to bite your tongue to not make her feel bad.
CLIENT: Nothing to do with making her feel bad. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Just didn't want to get in to an argument.
THERAPIST: Getting in to an argument will make you feel worse. You wonder like, so you felt like if you come in here and, and you've got good things to say or, you know, not things that you're upset about then I'm going to start going. Like, well, J if you're doing alright then, let me tell you what's ","P1-N401391":"going on with me because oh, my God, you would not believe.
CLIENT: No. That's not going on.
THERAPIST: I don't think you really think that, but it made me think.
CLIENT: It would be nice, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: Yeah, you know. I, I would like to know when you're troubled.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: You always seem, you know...
THERAPIST: Fresh out of my Pilates class.
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, you know, there, there's an episode of Seinfeld.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Where Jerry talks about how he always ends up even, you know. [00:33:45]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: He loses money here. He gains it here. He loses a job here. He gets a job there.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know. He's even Steven and that's kind of how I kind of see you. You know, there's just this steady, you know, Doctor.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Other than when you have a cold, you're pretty much the same person.
THERAPIST: The same.
CLIENT: Every time.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know, struggling for words. (speaking very slowly in an exaggerated way) Ah, so, let me...
THERAPIST: (laughter) Yes, and what is this like for you that I'm Mr. Jerry Seinfeld, even Steven?
CLIENT: No, it's fine. You know. So, but, you know, I mean.
THERAPIST: I think it's kind of annoying for you.
CLIENT: Are you projecting?
THERAPIST: (laughter) I don't think so. [00:35:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, I think there would have been a time where I would have just done the documents tomorrow because, you know, I could overnight them on Saturday and they could get there on Friday and if I send them on Friday, they're going to get there on Monday. You know. But, the new Jay is ","P1-N4016F1":"getting them done today.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: Yeah. Planned. I've already got to take a shower today, you know. I figure it has been a week. Maybe not a whole week, but I could go right from here to the office instead of, you know, going back home and taking a shower. You know, so, I can pick Ian up even though I already told Jess that, ","P1-N401731":"you know, I'm 50\/50 on it. I kind of left myself room not to pick him up.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you don't have to, but you're going to do it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sounds great. [00:36:00]
CLIENT: Did I ever tell you how Lucille got upset with what I would call her?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: I would call her stinker bella and she went and complained to her mom.
THERAPIST: Really, she did?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I can't imagine. Kind of like Ian crying when you knocked him in the arm.
CLIENT: Jess's like Lucille doesn't like the nickname you have for her. I said okay, we'll come up with a new one. Now, at school, they call a squirrel whiskey frisky. So, I started calling her whiskey frisky and she giggles every time I call her that, except when she wants her mom. It's kind of a long ","P1-N401871":"nickname. [00:37:40]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Stuff she doesn't even know about. I don't think she even has a clue I paid for estimated taxes for state and collected from arm. I bought her a toner cartridge. You know, a $160 toner cartridge. I paid for her legal bills. CPA bills, which she refuses to pay anyway. She doesn't understand it. ","P1-N4018D1":"She can't understand why as an attorney people don't pay her, but when someone is a professional that does a service for us, she doesn't want to pay them.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:39:00]
CLIENT: She's a CPA. Yeah, it costs money to have your tax return done, but we have to do it. We can deduct it. I don't know. I wouldn't say I'm, I'm bored, but, I'm really just feel like I'm going nowhere. You know. It's just the same shit different day. It's just, you know. I feel like the mail man. ","P1-N401911":"The mail just keeps coming. You know. There's nothing new. All women are the same. You know. They want to find some reason to reject me or I will find it for them. [00:40:00]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I don't have any friends who are like, oh, you know, we need to set J up with somebody or you know. Probably because they're afraid that I'm crazy. I've told Dr. Grace that I was crazy and she said I'm normal. I figured she's a health care provider, so she has to say that. What do you say when ","P1-N401971":"people tell you they're crazy? How does that make you feel? Crazy. They've discovered some genes for mental issues. Did you see that? You know, schizophrenia, bi-polar, major depression and a couple other ones.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I know they knew that there were like some type of genetic contributions from the particular genes. We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Alright.
THERAPIST: I will see you on Tuesday. You take care.
CLIENT: If you're feeling down and need someone to talk to, you can always give me a call.