TITLE: Client "J", Session January 30, 2013: Client is stressed out and disappointed with the way work has been going recently.
DESCRIPTION: Client is stressed out and disappointed with the way work has been going recently.
CLIENT: ...makes me feel like I want to kill myself then I'll call you.
THERAPIST: OK. Yeah, keep me posted.
CLIENT: You never know. Mom and grandma.
THERAPIST: Oh, I didn't realize your mom was going to be out there.
CLIENT: Yeah. Whew, I'm exhausted. My closing got cancelled yesterday but I decided I didn't know if you had to reschedule something in there or not but and my hearing was cancelled. The closing was cancelled because the lender at the last moment killed the deal, based on too many foreclosures in ","P1-N400131":"the area. Yeah, so they consider it insufficient collateral. The value's fine but the collaterals I've never heard of it before. It's the most bizarre thing ever. And the mortgage contingency date was the 18th. And I talked to the loan officer and he's like, "Yeah, everything's good," you know, but ","P1-N400132":"they couldn't submit the appraisal until the 18th and I never asked for an extension. I didn't think we needed one. So it expired on the 18th. So if she doesn't close she's going to lose her deposit. And no matter how many times it old her this, she's got a commercial estate friend who called me, I ","P1-N400133":"put it in multiple e-mails. She doesn't understand why she can't get her deposit back. And everything she does, she's worried about it affecting getting her deposit back. So, the listing agent has referred her to a bank that hopefully can get it done so I don't get sued. [00:01:59]
THERAPIST: All right, two things. Backing up. So you didn't want to see me yesterday, you didn't want to check...
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: How come you didn't when did you find out the closing was?
CLIENT: Friday night.
THERAPIST: (laughter)
CLIENT: Yeah, I had a reason why. I'm having trouble. I mean, I just had I have a closing today. When I get back I have a closing on Wednesday, Thursday and Friday.
THERAPIST: Cameron, it's OK. Like, I'm not.
CLIENT: I just can't remember why. There was a reason. Oh, I know why because I needed to do laundry.
THERAPIST: (laughter) [The ideal if it's] (ph) dirty laundry, one way or another.
CLIENT: I was supposed to do some emergency title, just get some deeds and stuff and I ended up getting it online Monday. So at that point I just figured it was better. And I felt coming in Wednesday would be better because it's closer to next Friday. And of course, yesterday I found I was closing today. ","P1-N400271":"[It's been] (ph) crazy. [00:03:15]
THERAPIST: You felt like I was calling you on something (inaudible at 03:40) you seemed kind of a bit shaken.
CLIENT: Shaken?
THERAPIST: Stirred?
CLIENT: It's hot out. (inaudible at 03:55). I shouldn't have worn this suit. It's too thick. You asked me a question. I felt like I didn't know the answer. I knew there was a reason but I can't pinpoint it. (inaudible at 04:17) the chance to sleep in a little bit, which I haven't been able to do in ","P1-N400311":"a long time. It's because of, you know, all weekend with skating and snowboarding. But, yeah, sorry if I was shaken.
THERAPIST: (laughter) Nicely done.
CLIENT: Yeah, whatever. But...
THERAPIST: In this situation with the woman who lost her deposit, so the lender so she couldn't get her deposit back after the 18th of January?
CLIENT: Mmhmm.
THERAPIST: And the lender...
CLIENT: For failure to get financing. I mean, there could be other reasons she could get her deposit back.
THERAPIST: Right, right, right. Like, a tree falls on the house. And it looked like she was going to get financing. She was going to be fine but then the bank pulled some crazy shit?
CLIENT: Yeah, late Friday.
THERAPIST: And said, "Eh, there were a lot of foreclosures in the area. We're not going to do this (ph)." And so at that point she was up a creek. [00:05:33]
CLIENT: Yup, so...
THERAPIST: So you referred her to another bank.
CLIENT: The listing agent did, who can do it in three weeks. I think she's nervous because she thinks she's going to be stuck in this problem but it's like, the foreclosures are going down and it's ... And, you know, this bank is willing to do it. They saw the appraisal. They I know the situation.
THERAPIST: There's no incentive for them to get into it unless they think they're going to do it and they don't just waste their time.
CLIENT: Right. So, you know, that's been kind of stressful dealing with that.
THERAPIST: And the seller doesn't want to walk away?
CLIENT: It's a short sale so they want to sell it. But they also want to keep the deposit. They don't and 6000 bucks is not, like, a huge deposit. (pause) But, you know, I sent her an e-mail (inaudible at 06:37) she has her friend, this commercial real estate guy, call me. And he wasn't, like, yelling ","P1-N400511":"at me or blaming anybody. There was an undercurrent of blame, you know. As many times as he said he's not trying to blame anyone. He's like, "Well, you know, I don't understand why if there were many conditions you didn't get an extension." I said, "This is different than commercial real estate where ","P1-N400512":"you get a clean, you know, written commitment from the bank to lend you money." I said, "Most wholesale lenders don't issue a commitment they issue an approval and there are always conditions." And, you know, none of them raised any red flags. You know, we had the appraisal, the value was there, you ","P1-N400513":"know. And I said, "You know, if we went by how you think we should do this we would be extending the commitment to closing on every deal, you know, because there are always conditions." [00:07:41]
THERAPIST: Oh, this is the big contesting (ph)? [00:08:43]
CLIENT: Yeah. So that suck, all the work I put into it and then (ph)...
THERAPIST: Oh, does that mean you don't get...
CLIENT: I'm going to get paid.
THERAPIST: Oh OK, good.
CLIENT: And, you know, the...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 08:55)
CLIENT: I wanted a trail. I wanted to win, you know. And the disenfranchised trustee, you know, she keeps e-mailing me. She's e-mailing me about stuff that's among the three trustees. Like, "The defenPhilt does not want to pay my fees." That is between her and the guy who flipped. And I said, "I have ","P1-N400651":"nothing to do with that. That's between the three of you." You're going to get my bill. If you don't pay it, we'll go to small claims and talk about it, you know. I mean, they only owe me, like, I believe it's, like, three grand or so. So I'll set up a payment plan with them if they want or you know, ","P1-N400652":"just disappointed. You know, just very bizarre to me, once again, you know, why did this guy flip? What changed his mind, knowing how far along we've come? And the disenfranchised trustee thinks that the defenPhilt paid him off. It may have happened. Never know. [00:10:13]
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: (sighs) Drank a little bit last night. Didn't puke or anything like that. So, I had a couple of drinks. Buddy from college was in town. I feel myself having a cold though. I really didn't even want to go but I'm like, I really should see him. I don't know. I think I'm kind of, you know, I always ","P1-N4006B1":"get a little stressed out leaving town, you know. And I've got to deal with this closing while I'm out of town. I've got three closings, you know, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. I get back Tuesday night. You know, if there's any delay in my flight or anything, you know, I could be screwed. So I don't know... [00:11:43]
THERAPIST: That's great you got three closings.
CLIENT: It makes up for closing yesterday. The thing is, is this kind of my pipeline so it's, like, I only have one closing left at the end of February. The money's already spent as usual. Summer camp, rent. I don't have enough money to pay my rent or my malpractice for (ph) the first of the month. ","P1-N4006F1":"So I'm just not sure where the money goes.
THERAPIST: How's it coming?
CLIENT: And Lucille's already...
THERAPIST: How's it coming?
CLIENT: Oh, pretty good. You know, we've got a couple of coats of the paint on there. You have to wait 48 hours for it to cure so we'll put some more coats on tomorrow. And we're making a bumper car, so I've got to put black in the seat and black around it. And I'm thinking we may not have enough time ","P1-N400791":"to put enough coats on with black paint, that we might just take, like, a sharpie. I don't know how that would look. If it looks like crap we can always paint over it. I don't know. [00:13:18]
THERAPIST: Right, nothing unusual.
CLIENT: Because I know she's going to be upset probably not seeing Ian (sp?) but not seeing me too. Because I've been seeing her, you know, almost every day.
THERAPIST: Wow. [That's great] (ph).
CLIENT: A day here and there.
THERAPIST: But even if it's only for, like, a little bit. But this is kind of her personality. She stayed home sick. You know, her separation anxiety. She stayed home sick. The next day she didn't want to go to daycare. And Jess always says, "Oh, go see Lilly (sp?), your friend." And she goes, "No see ","P1-N400871":"Lilly (sp?) anymore." (chuckles) Of course when she got to daycare I'm sure she was fine. Lilly (sp?) wasn't there she was sick. But she definitely has Jess's stubbornness. Yeah, this separation anxiety thing is just really bizarre. I mean, you know, just (pause) it's like [if I get there] (ph) and ","P1-N400872":"I just, like, touch her, you know, she runs over to mom, "Up, up, up." You know, I mean, eventually she steps down and settles down and we can play. I can chase her and she chases me. But like, if I first get there and try to interact with her it's upsetting. Or she comes home and I'm there with Ian (sp?). [00:16:45]
THERAPIST: It seems like you're kind of running around a little (ph). [00:17:47]
CLIENT: You're pretty observant.
THERAPIST: Thanks.
CLIENT: And, I don't know. I have to run to the office. I have to cash some checks and print out he closing package and close. You know, plus (ph) I have to deal (ph) these checks. I was there the other day and I'm like, "Oh, I'll deposit them later" and I should have deposited them. And hopefully there's ","P1-N400911":"more checks waiting for me and maybe I can pay my rent. I don't know. My buddy Phil said he's sending me two checks today. So hopefully it'll get there tomorrow. He said he was sending them Friday but they actually go out in the mail today, you know. Under other circumstances I would go to the northern ","P1-N400912":"office and pick them you but I just don't have time. But those two checks would make it so if they come tomorrow I'll be able to pay my rent.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Because if I don't my pay rent it's going to be an extra 50 bucks.
THERAPIST: Because of the office, right? [00:18:55]
CLIENT: Yeah. I haven't paid my I haven't even paid rent this month and I keep meaning to e-mail my tenant. He's still two months behind. And he just gives me this shit of, you know, I feel really bad about this and, you know, check's going in the mail today and then we'll send one next week and then ","P1-N400991":"next month. And, you know, it takes like a week for that check that he's putting in the mail and then, you know, the following week when he promises the second check it never comes. I tell my landlord why I can't pay him rent. Like, you know, (inaudible at 19:36). And I understand why he can't pay rent. ","P1-N400992":"He just started a law practice he's broke. So, I don't know. [00:19:56]
THERAPIST: Good, especially considering there's been a lot of stuff going on. You've been getting ready to go, getting organized, dealing with those closing issue that happened, which it sounds like it was stressful [to change] (ph). I guess in a way (inaudible at 20:36) with the (inaudible at 20:38).
CLIENT: Something similar happened a couple summer ago with the deal with Claire.
THERAPIST: Similar to the lender that just pulled out or similar to the...
CLIENT: Yeah, the deal got killed. You know, commitment time and the loan officer's like, "Yeah, everything's all set," and then all of a sudden it's not all set, you know. And (sighs), you know, that worked out because he moved in. It worked out, so hopefully this will work out but the loan officer ","P1-N400A31":"did suggest that they may part of the deposit.
THERAPIST: The...
CLIENT: The mortgage company, broker. Which I feel really bad about. I don't have any money to bear, you know.
THERAPIST: You know, I don't understand (inaudible at 21:50) very well but it doesn't seem like there's anything reasonably you could have done. I mean, if you did it differently in this deal it would mean you're handling almost every deal differently.
CLIENT: Well, I mean, if I looked at it and saw I mean, maybe I might in the future think twice about leaving an appraisal hanging out there that hasn't been approved by the lender but I've had deals w\/t he appraisal has been approved and then when it goes into approval review the day before closing ","P1-N400AD1":"it gets killed.
THERAPIST: Right. It doesn't really mean anything.
CLIENT: And, you know, if these people would hire a lawyer when they put their offering in I would say subject to a and appraisal, you know, greater than, equal to the sale price acceptable to the buyer's lender.
THERAPIST: But that wasn't even an issue this time, right, the appraisal?
CLIENT: I would at least have an argument. I really don't have an argument and I've got a stupid client that none of them understand that there's a date on this and once the date is gone it's over, you know. It's like, she doesn't she wants me to look at the extension before she signs it and sends ","P1-N400B51":"it over and make sure it doesn't affect everything she's worried about is (ph) affecting her ability to get the deposit back. And I put in my, you know, e-mails, you know, "You're going to have a difficult time getting your deposit back. They don't want to give it to you." [00:23:35]
THERAPIST: Quick question, sort of (inaudible at 23:46). I think when something like this happens, I think you generally feel like you fucked up, I mean, in respective of whether you have or not or if there was anything you could have done. I think you basically feel like you must have done something ","P1-N400B91":"wrong and that what you're saying is sort of defensive or involves making excuses in a way, even if you actually know it's true.
CLIENT: What's true? That I fucked up or that I didn't?
THERAPIST: You didn't. I mean, I think when you're explaining it there's an extent to which you feel like you're making an excuse because at bottom you feel like you did it wrong. Even if as you say the thing that feels like an excuse you know it's actually true. You know, as though your hand is kind ","P1-N400BD1":"of always in the cookie jar, even when it isn't.
CLIENT: Yeah, I always have doubts in my mind.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I don't think it's just doubts I think it's actually conviction, so to speak. [00:24:55]
CLIENT: That's a weird description.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 25:04)
CLIENT: I mean, conviction is, like, principles or, you know, strong beliefs.
THERAPIST: Yes, that's what I mean, yeah. And I think it's funny (inaudible at 25:13) because it's a conviction about convicting yourself of something.,
CLIENT: In my own prison.
THERAPIST: I think you generally feel like you've done wrong.
THERAPIST: And a lot of times you haven't.
CLIENT: If you say so.
CLIENT: So I have these friends who are looking to buy a condo. So I referred them to my mortgage guy and I got there's a realtor who plays Handball who's never sent me any deals but we've done deals together on mutual clients. And he's probably familiar with that area but I sent an e-mail to Claire ","P1-N400D71":"anyway since I hadn't done anything with her in a long time. And I wanted to put in there, "Are you cheating on me with another attorney?" Because I ran into her, maybe last fall or whatever, you know, and she kind of hinted that she doesn't have anything going on. I'm like, it's been a long time since ","P1-N400D72":"she's taken a deal, you know. Two years maybe? I don't know. I mean, we've done deals but they're all deals I've sent to her. [00:27:20]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 28:08)
CLIENT: There's this guy who (phone sounds) is that me or you? Plays on the field we share a field with and we have a pasta dinner before the tournament with (inaudible at 28:29). And he started the team 20 years ago. He died this weekend of a heart attack. Forty-five years old. Wife, triplets, five years old.
THERAPIST: Oh my god. Oh, that's awful.
CLIENT: Yeah. I barely knew him, you know, but you always get the sense he's a nice guy and everybody says wonderful things about him and, you know. Tall guy but, you know, looks in shape, he's not overweight. It may be genetic or, I don't know. I feel bad for all the people on his team, you know. That's ","P1-N400E11":"kind of a huge blow, you know, to just. It has me thinking, I'm like, "God, he's 45. I'm 42 and I'm not taking care of myself." Has that changed anything for me? No. [You'd think I'd maybe] (ph) start exercising. [00:29:42]
THERAPIST: You exercise sometimes.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: You play Handball in seasons (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah but, I mean, you know, since I heard, you know, Monday.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 29:52)
CLIENT: Yeah, I went out drinking and...
CLIENT: (phone sounds) DG it. Is that dig it?
THERAPIST: DG it?
CLIENT: Yeah, D-G space I-T. Dig it? (inaudible at 30:22). He's a young kid (inaudible at 30:26). You know, I don't know why right now I have a little bit of anxiety. My stomach's a little churned a little bit, you know. I'm not sure why.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 30:47) trip.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm always nervous about trips. Part of it's work, part of it's just, you know, something going wrong, you know. I don't know. I mean, I'm sure it's going to be fun and Ian (sp?) is going to have a ball and, you know. Not really even get a chance to go into the city and do anything but, you know.
CLIENT: (phone sounds) It's the same message. (inaudible at 32:12)
THERAPIST: [I like to] (ph) do that for everybody.
CLIENT: I thought it was some kind of a blip (ph). You know, my phone hasn't been syncing with iCloud so it's, like, nothing's been transferred to Outlook. And this has happened before and so on the iPhone I turn off the calendar on iCloud and turn it back on. And I don't let it delete anything and ","P1-N401011":"it seems to work and everything showed up on Outlook. But it got rid of today's appointment and reinstated Tuesday's appointment. That's why I couldn't remember the time. At some point it's going to fuck me up (inaudible at 33:11). It already has with little things but...
THERAPIST: Right, sure, distracting you. [00:34:14]
CLIENT: And it didn't happen. I wonder if that's actually the medication or if it's some sort of placebo effect.
THERAPIST: Like, just how you [were competent] (ph) in something. (pause) Like, maybe in the past when they acted like that and distracted you you'd get frustrated because it would make you feel incompetent or...
CLIENT: It's (ph) just distracting to me. You know, I would get, before the kids, with Jess, I'm on the computer and she's trying to talk to me and I'm like, "I'm reading an e-mail." (inaudible at 35:01) upset, you know. And I've yelled at Ian (sp?), you know, when I've been on my phone sending an e-mail ","P1-N4010B1":"or a text or...
THERAPIST: Right, and I guess I was sort of...
CLIENT: ...just sort of snappy with him.
THERAPIST: ...speculating that maybe part of the reason why is because then you don't feel like you're working effectively or you're not getting through something and that makes you feel bad.
CLIENT: It's a concentration thing, you know, or it just frustrates me because I can't focus on or I couldn't focus on (inaudible at 35:38)
THERAPIST: What you're trying to yeah. It's more like you're trying to do something and you can't do it and that can get frustrating. And then (inaudible at 35:49) you snapped on them. Except this time, it didn't actually prevent you from doing what you're trying to do.
CLIENT: Yeah. I didn't get upset.
THERAPIST: you didn't get upset, yeah.
CLIENT: (phone rings) (inaudible at 36:14)
THERAPIST: That's good.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It sounds like this is really making a I'm kind of seeing a big difference.
CLIENT: Even if I wake up and I don't feel motivated, like yesterday, you know, once I take the medication and it kicks in, you know, I'm completely changed. Just, you know, the fact I was able to go do laundry and....
THERAPIST: Has it affected your appetite?
CLIENT: Definitely. I'm not eating during the day and getting hungry at night. But not binging it (ph) I guess. You know, last night I had some soup at the house with the kids and we went to the pub, you know, in the Hall, and we shared a my buddy and I shared a platter of...
THERAPIST: Oh, that (inaudible at 37:17)
CLIENT: Yeah, fried clams and oysters. So I ate half of that. And then we went to a restaurant and I ordered some chicken wings and I maybe ate half of them. And our waitress didn't put it on the table, put it on the railing, and I said, "I'm going to forget it there" and sure enough, I left them. (pause) ","P1-N4012B1":"The fact that I didn't eat all the wings was unusual.
THERAPIST: I think that your anxiety about the trip is kind of a version of, although it's not happening as much recently, what would happen with getting anxious about a closing. I guess that's what it reminds me off. The day before a closing you just kind of be anxious because something could go wrong, ","P1-N4012D1":"something could get fucked up, it could not work out, you would feel responsible, it could make stress and hassle. It seems like that, you know.
CLIENT: Well, and, you know, I've got this closing that I'm going to have to deal with while I'm in the city, if something goes wrong. I've got three closings when I get back, you know. I mean, that's kind of part of it too, is it's like, you know, it's the work I have to do around traveling sometimes. ","P1-N4012F1":"It's like I never maybe I've mentioned this before that, you know, if I ever need work I just need to schedule a trip because then all of a sudden I'll have a closing. [00:38:54]
THERAPIST: Yeah, it is uncanny how often that's happened. I mean, the last few times you've gone away, like, to Louisiana, I remember, and another trip.
CLIENT: I didn't have a good night's sleep last night, which may have been a result of the drinking. I didn't go to bed till after 2:00. I got home at 12:30, 1:00 but I don't know what I was doing. Just wasn't tired. (inaudible at 39:44). I was worried about, you know, what effects the Adderall has, ","P1-N401351":"you know. I'm sure most of it has been worn off by that time [of the day] (ph).
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think so.
CLIENT: So I had some beers on Saturday but I didn't take the Adderall on Saturday. I did take it Sunday because we were working on the car, you know, just to get me motivated and (inaudible at 40:17). I don't know. Not (ph) my brother.
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: Because my brother's been dating this woman. The family's been kind of just blown away by how sappy he's being on Facebook about this woman, how she's special and blah blah blah and none of us has even met her. And she posted something yesterday about you know how you ask to change your password ","P1-N4013D1":"and, you know, you need an alphanumeric of so many characters. Well, she had it in all this other stuff that was really witty and funny. I can't even remember what it was but it was funny. So I (inaudible at 41:07), you know, I said, "You're way too witty for Jeff and he's clearly over kicked his coverage." ","P1-N4013D2":"And he texted me.
CLIENT: OK, so he goes, "Why do you have to be an ass?" I said, "I was born that way." Then he said, "I meant why do you have to be an ass," which he probably sent while I was, you know I don't know why he did that. And then he goes, "Yeah, I know." And then I said, "I was complimenting your woman." ","P1-N401411":"And he goes, "Thank you very much... yeah, OK, whatever. By trying to make me look bad? Great... I really appreciate it." And I said, "See? You have no sense of humor. I bet she thinks it's funny." And then he goes, "You missed the point. Obviously I have a sense of humor. You know, just forget it." ","P1-N401412":"And then I said, "She's pretty witty." And he goes, "Yes she is." And I noticed that she liked Phish on her "likes," you know. So I said, "Does she like Phish?" And he goes, "Why do you ask?" I go, "If she does, she's cooler than you too." (laughter) And I put a little winky emoticon thing there. And ","P1-N401413":"then he goes, "It's nice to know you've got my back when I need it. Makes me feel really good to know that." And then he goes, "Thanks." And then I'm like, "Any time bro." He goes, "I guess you still don't get it or just don't care. Whatever." [00:43:03]
THERAPIST: We should stop here.
CLIENT: But as you can see I have a wonderful relationship with my brother, who's not going (inaudible at 43:42). I'd shake your hand but I have a cold. You might want to wash down your chair. Water might not be enough.
THERAPIST: Have a good trip.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'll see you next Friday.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Hope you can get a little (inaudible at 44:05).
THERAPIST: I hope so too.