TITLE: Client "J", Session August 13, 2013: Client discusses whether or not his Crohn's disease is because of his drinking and eating habits. Client discusses the relationship he has with his girlfriend.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses whether or not his Crohn's disease is because of his drinking and eating habits. Client discusses the relationship he has with his girlfriend.
CLIENT: [inaudible at 00:00:05] tenant, paying good money. He's getting stuff done. Not going to be here Friday. Making money this time.
THERAPIST: And then?
CLIENT: No, no, no, no, no, no.
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: No changing your schedule on me.
THERAPIST: Well then you're out the 23rd and 27th. But that is not next week but it's the following week, right?
CLIENT: On a Friday, yes. Do you have anything on, I would say, on the afternoon on the 16th or the 15th?
THERAPIST: I can do Friday at 4:30.
CLIENT: Friday at 4:30. Let's pencil that in because my parents are coming to town but you know they can take a fucking cab.
THERAPIST: Friday, let's see today's the 13th, that must be the 16th.
CLIENT: I haven't been well, so. 4:30? Great, parking in the square. I might as well I should ride my bike.
THERAPIST: I also have 11:55 but I assume that's not as good for you.
CLIENT: On Friday?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Yes, I just don't know how long I'm going to be at work. I've never been there before. Which is good because I need to do this because I do it. So when did we last meet? Tuesday?
THERAPIST: Yes. [00:02:03]
CLIENT: Because I know I talked about the did I talk about the accountant who was on oh I didn't tell you about this. The accountant remember about the woman who has cancer who's trying to evict her tenant? And the accountant started being a pain in the ass and just really didn't like the things ","P1-N4002B1":"he was saying and what he was saying about my client and his unwillingness to even negotiate and he has the upper hand. So I'm doing my accountant for the day, my good do-be stuff, on Wednesday and our hearing for the landlord\/tenant cases Thursday morning in district court, just downstairs. So the ","P1-N4002B2":"woman who kind of runs the show, Stephanie, she knows her landlord-tenant, she represents [inaudible at 00:03:07] tenants. She knows it. So I show a whole host of questions about the case and, because basically I'm going to have to re-serve the notice to quit, so that's going to be a termination date ","P1-N4002B3":"of September 1st, no, no, no, no, October 1st; my client's not going to be happy.
THERAPIST: Sounds terrible.
CLIENT: Yes. And I actually, this is going to translate into the lack of finances thing, I had the opportunity to buy some liquid Morphine so how often does that happen, right? Not that I know what I would do with it, but how does that happen? So I bought it. So I had it. So I took some and that didn't ","P1-N400391":"help. But I fell asleep and woke up and I was feeling better. But the same thing on Thursday about late in the day and it's not just pain, but there's fatigue and I actually feel a little discombobulated like I'm having trouble remembering what I'm doing. I think yesterday I'm sitting outside of my ","P1-N400392":"office with my car alarm open or trying to lock my car, my office with my car keys. It's just weird stuff like that. I'll be driving on the road and I feel like I don't have control of the car and it's not constantly but just these little things that maybe they've always been there but I'm noticing ","P1-N400393":"them now. I hate dropping my phone. There was a Handball tournament this weekend and I'm dropping my phone.
THERAPIST: What's contributing to what?
CLIENT: Right. Oh yes, so there's this anxiety that's out there.
THERAPIST: You got $2,000 from your father.
CLIENT: Yes, my dad's going to send me $2,000, which was great. Once again, this is the second month that I had $1,000 just shows up in my account. I've gotten several, a bunch of checks that are going to overdraft in my bank. I went and talked to the bank and said we're going to pay them. And I said ","P1-N400451":"I've got this $2,000 coming in. So, but I bought the Morphine. Tickets went on sale Friday and Saturday for Phish. When Phish went on sale I it was on for a while, couldn't get tickets, couldn't get tickets, then all the sudden sorry there's no more tickets of where you requested. I was looking for ","P1-N400452":"two. So I tried one, I bought one and it was for Friday and Saturday. So I got two single tickets for Friday and two single tickets for Saturday, and for shits and giggles I tried to buy two tickets for a ticket for both days. Come on. And I was able to get a ticket for that. [00:14:29]
THERAPIST: Fifty.
CLIENT: Yes. And I accidentally forgot to cancel your check this weekend too so that went through. But we can check. How would you like to stop payment on that? So I've been very anxious about that.
THERAPIST: Wait, wait was it deposited? [00:18:03]
CLIENT: What's that? No, it takes it out right away.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So, so I was very anxious yesterday about it. I was mixed up. I was taking two Klonopin instead of one and maybe that's adding to my disorientation and then I mean, I feel a little better this morning. I took a Klonopin this morning. There's some sort of anxiousness about Marcia, too, that I ","P1-N400571":"don't know, I can't pinpoint exactly what it is. Harry and Melanie say that because I'm hanging out with her not because, you know. Marcia had said to me, she says hanging out with you is going to make me an alcoholic because we go out and have fun. We drink. And Harry and Melanie think that that's ","P1-N400572":"what's causing my Crohn's.
THERAPIST: The drinking?
CLIENT: The drinking. I said, listen before I went into Frederick (ph) I was drinking. I mean there was one time I was on the phone with you at 11:00 at night and I did six shots while we were on the phone during that 45 minute or 50 I can't remember, but it was exactly here, your time allotment for ","P1-N4005B1":"just having [inaudible at 00:19:29]. But I was drinking alone and I never had. I think now I had active Crohn's all that time but I had no flares. I think the Crohn's never really went away but it was just mellow, I was probably taking a little better care of myself food-wise, whatever, and Dr. Buttersworth ","P1-N4005B2":"(ph) doesn't think it was stress that's causing my Crohn's. I don't know but I'm telling them the alcohol I don't think is the problem. I started these chia seeds. I've been taking them at tournaments but I started taking them in the morning on Monday or Tuesday. I thought maybe it could be all the ","P1-N4005B3":"fiber, there's a lot of fiber and I have been bound up and gassy since I've been taking them. [00:20:10]
THERAPIST: Are you taking any Adderall holidays, like do you not take it [inaudible at 00:26:24]?
CLIENT: I don't think I am. But I'm not taking any in the afternoon anymore much. And I do take it late in the day if I know I'm going to be going out with Marcia or whatever because we stay out pretty late if we're going out with her friends or whatever.
THERAPIST: So you take it to help you stay up?
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: You take it to help stay up if you're going to be up late?
CLIENT: I don't think it really helps me as much stay up as much as just kind of I mean maybe it's the same thing but it's just kind of more energy. It's not like I'm taking it at 10:00 at night, I'm just taking it later in the afternoon. So it's probably worn off but just to kind of give me motivation ","P1-N4006F1":"to get out there and I don't want to stay at home. I don't know. Because I don't feel anxiety when I'm with Marcia, though she's driving me a little bit crazy when we play cards. I did a little she's really intent about it and we were playing $3 hands of Scat. But this is what she loves so I'm not ","P1-N4006F2":"it's like my dad watching football, he didn't want you talking during the game. That's what he you just didn't talk during the game. So whenever I try and talk to Marcia about something, she just would kind of blow me off, which kind of happens a lot any ways. I think a lot of people do that to ","P1-N4006F3":"me. But, so I did an experiment and Scat is 31. So Laurel was sitting next to me I said Laurel 31. Immediately Marcia looks over and I made up some question about 31. And then a few minutes later I did it again and she just kind of looked over and looked away. But I would make fun of her at some point. [00:28:39]
THERAPIST: I think you're really quite [inaudible at 00:29:20] you're doing something wrong.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: I think you're really [inaudible at 00:29:28] you're doing something wrong and that somehow the various problems that you're having are your fault and I'm going to shake my index finger at you.
CLIENT: Why do you think that because you had no reaction whatsoever when I said I bought Morphine. I saw a reaction in your head but there was no outward that would be a point I would've expected you to say what?
THERAPIST: So I think you're turning it around a little bit -
CLIENT: That's what I do.
THERAPIST: and saying geez you really should have had a reaction Chad (ph) when I [00:30:17]
CLIENT: No, you're turning it around now. I'm saying you didn't have a reaction. I don't expect you to say what I'm doing is wrong. I actually am saying all these things that I think kind of going well and that's kind of the whole happiness thing is being able to make it through these situations.
THERAPIST: Cameron I think you I don't think that so much a kind of mature, rational worry about me telling you you're doing something wrong. I think you feel that because things aren't going right because you're out of money, because your health isn't good, because you feel anxious you must be fucking ","P1-N400831":"up. I mean the answer to everything is that you're irresponsible and you aren't focused enough on things and aren't conscientious about and I think you're waiting for me to sort of case-style lay into you in that way.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Because yesterday that's where the whole happiness thing came is kind of this acceptance of all these problems and just saying if my bills, my checks bounce, I'll deal with it. Work is what it I have this feeling yesterday as crappy as I felt, as kind of discombobulated, I just said I'm much ","P1-N400891":"better now not having to worry about the kids all the time, being able to go and do what I want, not feeling like okay there's a tournament this weekend that I can't play in and now I've got to spend time with the family. No, I'm going go out there and help the team. I stood on the opposite sideline ","P1-N400892":"and helped people on the other sideline. There's a lot of guys out there you can socialize with the whole time. So I'm able to do that where I think before I would've felt guilty about it and not do it. Go to the party afterwards and stay until the end and even had a beer. [00:32:35]
THERAPIST: Yes, I mean it's sort of reassuring for you to think of your medical needs and thinking that [inaudible at 00:36:01] not knowing what's going on because it makes you feel more at ease about being confused yourself. It's sort of like none of you folks have a fucking clue what's going on so ","P1-N4008F1":"I don't have to feel so anxious about not knowing either. It makes you feel less [00:36:23]
CLIENT: I do feel anxious and maybe it's the -
THERAPIST: Yes, but at the moment I think you're using that -
CLIENT: the incompetence of my medical team is I just think the whole medical thing in general how, especially with my dad being a doctor how you think it's such a wonderful thing and it is but there are scenarios where it's not and this is one of them. I always used to be confused about people ","P1-N400951":"had all these problems and they couldn't find it and then they finally found it months, years later. Well, that happened to me. I had Crohn's when I was 12 and they didn't find it until I was 21. See doctors fuck up all the time. Dr. Buttersworth (ph) was just so casual, you have Crohn's, you'll flare ","P1-N400952":"so often. If worse comes to worse we'll just cut it out. So I get all these personalities and areas of specialties and just I pray to God that CBS is doing some kind of assessment on whether I'm going to kill myself on all the medications that I'm on.
THERAPIST: Well, or maybe with the some kind of fantasy about really having to build yourself up. I mean the same way that you eat too much sometimes.
CLIENT: The Chia's really helped with that.
THERAPIST: Well good.
CLIENT: I really feel like I'm losing a lot of weight too. Last night I got Chinese food and I ordered more but I ate less. But yes, I'm still eating -
THERAPIST: Yes, dealing with the eating and I think probably drinking too, that, and probably the Adderall, you need it. There's a feeling I think of needing it that goes beyond sort of, well that's emotional, that's not just about what you need so that you feel kind of full.
CLIENT: Yes, but drinking is yes maybe I have a little bit of hard alcohol and drink a lot of beers and now I'm drinking fewer beers and more hard alcohol but I'm I think I'm drinking at a heavier pace when I do drink. [00:40:00]
THERAPIST: Yes this happens when you're anxious is that you have this [need-type] (ph) anxiety probably feels you like a pit in your stomach that you're trying to fill up.
CLIENT: So what do we do? What are the answers? Let's fix this. Now I'm anxious. [Pause] I don't want to tell Marcia about the finances or the anxiety. I kind of started to tell her because I was upset with my dad. I kind of told her and I just, I don't know at this point I just don't feel it's appropriate. ","P1-N400A71":"And she jokes a lot about do you ever work, and stuff like that. I know it's joking but there's truth to it. I don't have a whole lot to do. [00:42:31]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: To be continued as always then we'll talk about something else. Enjoy your workout.
THERAPIST: Thanks. [00:43:43]