TITLE: Client "J", Session August 02, 2013: Client discusses his current money issues as work is slowing down. Client discusses pushing forward with his marital separation and introducing his kids to his girlfriend.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses his current money issues as work is slowing down. Client discusses pushing forward with his marital separation and introducing his kids to his girlfriend.
THERAPIST: I am out next Friday.
CLIENT: Saving your money. I cancelled today's game at 2:00. I don't want to. No I think the finances thing is starting to heat up. I was very anxious yesterday. That's what I attributed it to. Jess sent me a text asking me money for Torrance (ph), which was due that day. So I said thanks for the heads ","P1-N4000D1":"up. How much? She said half of $1,400. Oh, another $700. Good. So it's all kind of coming to roost this week. And of course I mail-ordered Phish tickets, which I may or may not get but if I get the charge will go through or hopefully go through. And I'll ultimately recoup the money back but I've got to -
THERAPIST: For the Phish tickets?
CLIENT: For the Phish tickets, yes. Compliments of [inaudible at 00:01:33], it's my money that tied it. I know, it makes no sense.
THERAPIST: I had a funny train of thought. [inaudible at 00:01:49] selling insurance so [inaudible] recoup the money for the Phish tickets. It sounds like she has a closing at the Phish concert? That would be really cool.
CLIENT: Well there are two. No I buy four tickets and I sell, I'll probably sell a pair. And if I wanted to I could make money on them. I'll at least get half the money back. I don't know. Things are just, it's weird. I've got a new client meeting on Monday and there seems to be things percolating it's ","P1-N400151":"just that nothing's coming through. And some people owe me some money but it's not so much anymore that I [inaudible at 00:02:49] my conservatorship case; start Mikeing some hours on that. It's just I'm kind of hinting next week is going to be a cash flow issue. I've got to kind of figure out what ","P1-N400152":"that's going to be and I guess call my dad. Throw myself on the mercy of the court. [00:03:11]
THERAPIST: Slightly. Not so much. A little bit. [00:08:08]
CLIENT: I'm a little self-conscious about it [inaudible at 00:08:17] and they kind of hurt, like these ones right here. Ow, ow, ow, ow, ow. So I have been having a little pain; I went back to Dr. Buttersworth (ph). So he really, we just kind of talked about it a little bit and it's at the point where ","P1-N400211":"okay, I've got Crohn's, a flare, I'm on steroids. So he's going to wean me off, five weeks and with bigger drops. I went from 40 to 30 and I'm going to go down to 20 next week and then it goes to 15, 10, 5, none. I may alter that a little bit.
THERAPIST: Marcia.
CLIENT: Oh yes. So I promised to do that and then she remembers that a friend of hers band is playing in Heatherford so she said oh, maybe we'll go down to Heatherford. Then she remembers that her best friend's daughter is playing her first club show and she said I have to go and I said yes, you should ","P1-N4002D1":"go. And she kind of interpreted it as just her. So of course I'm going and then she later made some comment about where I go she goes and so it's more of a relationship thing going on. So I want to get the separation agreement done. I'm torn about the whole kid thing. Marcia brought it up and I said ","P1-N4002D2":"kids, you know. I mean I'm the one who threw it out there and I really don't want to talk about it with Jess on Monday but I have to. And I just don't understand these bright lines, six months. Well, what's so magical about six months? I think what's important here is the time since we've separated ","P1-N4002D3":"has been over two years, which I don't think anyone would argue is not a long time and not a conservative amount of time, for the kid to get over my parents are getting back together. I mean he'll never be over that but it's not as big of an issue. Like I asked him if he knew what a boyfriend was and ","P1-N4002D4":"a girlfriend and all that and he didn't. And somehow the conversation ends up where he just wants the two of us to work together, live. That's what he [inaudible at 00:16:40].
THERAPIST: Is it that unlike the time spent are arbitrary measure of what's going on in your relationship?
CLIENT: As opposed to what's actually going on. We're looking at next week four months and I'm going to try to negotiate some of the time I've worked. I mean I can't really say this to Jess but I've never kind of been in a relationship like this. This just seems to be the hard to describe exactly ","P1-N400331":"why but there seems to be a little more fun, flirtiness and affection and all that kind of stuff. This woman's had many reasons to run away. Not just walk away but run. I mean you snicker but [00:19:05]
THERAPIST: I didn't actually snicker at anyone.
CLIENT: I get it. It's taking us a long time. And I'm not helping it but I kind of want to just I feel like I, I don't want to say that I'm testing but I just want to we were driving, I live by Westford Hospital. And so we're driving by the half the hospital's the psych ward.
THERAPIST: Back up a little bit here.
CLIENT: No, I'm running this show.
THERAPIST: I smile because she hasn't run away and it's nice that you're so, you're wrong. But you sort of attribute to me the opposite, that I'm snickering as though I'm thinking instead of oh, it's kind of nice you're wrong Cameron, something more like oh my God she sure does. [00:20:07]
CLIENT: Well that's what my family thinks. What is this woman doing with Cameron? My dad calls me up and says someone (ph) sent a picture to my mom. He says oh she's pretty. Tell her your retired OB-GYN dad thinks she's pretty. So once again why is there a problem? Why -
THERAPIST: What you sent a picture that your dad got -
CLIENT: I sent it to my mom and I think she forwarded to Dad.
THERAPIST: Right, she forwarded it to your dad, yes, he got a hold of. And he says tell your retired OB-GYN dad thinks she's pretty. That's not what is she doing with Cameron.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: That's not your dad saying what the hell is she doing with you?
CLIENT: No, but then he went into there were plenty of comments about questioning this woman's sanity and judge of character, all that stuff. They do it with any person I communicate with, except you. You're getting paid well, that doesn't make any I do have some checks for you, though. I'll bring ","P1-N4004B1":"those on Tuesday. Oh so we're not ?
THERAPIST: We're on Tuesday, just not next Friday. I'm away [inaudible at 00:21:27] Friday.
CLIENT: I broke down and put a passcode on my phone. I'm now realizing that it's no pain in the ass whatsoever. It takes like less than a second to do it. But I really had myself exposed. I didn't mind people texting from my phone. They texted to Marcia that I like little boys. But I had that coming ","P1-N4004F1":"because I've done that to them many times. And there's Melanie who does have a code on her phone but she's the one I text from other people's phones. So that would be the ninth? [00:22:14]
THERAPIST: Right. Just so you know.
CLIENT: And then in August I'm going to have my something I need. But, yes my yearly trek to South Carolina.
THERAPIST: Oh, are you telling me you're going to be out? I'll write it down.
CLIENT: Oh yes, I guess we can do that too. Is it going against my time? I plan to leave for South Carolina I'm going to drive this year, which no one thinks I should do which makes me think I should do it. So I'm going to leave on the 21st, so the 23rd no Rileyer what would be out of the question ","P1-N400571":"because even if I flew I would be gone that day. And then there's a very good chance I won't be back for Tuesday morning. My plan might even be to leave South Carolina on Monday and that would break it up. I kind of want to stop and play some golf with Ray in Virginia. It's not far enough to make a ","P1-N400572":"stop, like on Wednesday night I'm stopping and that cuts off six hours on a seventeen-hour trip, that's a pretty decent overlay. Actually it's less, it's a 15-hour trip so it gives me about 9 hours. Virginia's cutting it close but I want to see Ray even if I don't play golf. Just I want; I should. So ","P1-N400573":"yes I probably should cancel the 27th.
THERAPIST: Okay. Fine.
CLIENT: I mean I'm perfect anyway so I'm all fixed. Micah cancelled on me today, bitch (ph). Yes, no one thinks I should be on [inaudible at 00:24:14]. I got a brand new car. I love driving. I had a great time driving down to Ohio. I like driving especially going to South Carolina where you're not going ","P1-N4005B1":"down 95 you're going through some mountains and stuff. That's a nice drive. I get to see my buddy Mike who I don't see very often. I never met his wife; I've never been in his place. I can get there, maybe check some stuff out while he's at work and then we can go have some dinner and some pops and ","P1-N4005B2":"I can kidnap him and take him to South Carolina. But it also gives me some flexibility in South Carolina when I leave and just getting up and fighting to get to the airport when I'm really hungover and tired, it just, you know. Yes, but Marcia thinks I'm crazy. But we knew that.
THERAPIST: Bed? [00:26:20]
CLIENT: Inability. And then brought all kinds of prostitutes and fluffers and it hasn't worked. Not that I didn't enjoy that but no one else had a good time. So despite all these things I guess it helps out a nice person. For friends and family like me it's kind of main, I wouldn't say it's going out ","P1-N400611":"of my way but I try to make her friends happy and do little things. I think I told you because she thinks as a fan I'm going to need some back up.
THERAPIST: What's a parent coordinator?
CLIENT: They coordinate visitation and help with doing what's right for the kids. Kind of situations where the parents are having trouble agreeing on something.
THERAPIST: Is this a help [inaudible at 00:28:09] or an like an advocate person or something? [00:28:13]
CLIENT: No, they're more of a mediator-type. It's like hiring a guardian ad litem. They're representing the kid basically but they it's a coordinator type of. And I don't know if these some of them I think are lawyers. But I don't have the money to spend for that and I don't have -
THERAPIST: Right. My impression is that things aren't that contentious between you and Jess or others. I mean even if you waited until six months -
CLIENT: Well but there are certain things that she holds her guns to and this is one of them. So I don't feel like this is the battle I want to pick but I don't know. I mean I Marcia would I think would understand but there's this underlying thing of and she, even when I asked her, said she wanted ","P1-N4006F1":"to take the relationship slow, which I have no idea what she meant by that because it doesn't seem to be moving slowly in my book. It's not like, I mean, it's not like it's moving fast but -
THERAPIST: Yes. Yes I mean the point person here should really be is Ian still seeing the therapist?
CLIENT: I don't even think that was who knows what the fuck? I don't even know.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I don't even know when Lucille goes to daycare and when she doesn't or it's out of the blue. I see the kids when I can. They love me. Went over there the morning before I left for Columbus and I realized I was kind of having a little bit of a rush day, [I think to get] (ph) back into Providence. ","P1-N400771":"And Jess kind of suggested, because the plan was to go over there, play with Ian and Lucille, Jess takes Ian to school, comes back and take Lucille to daycare so Lucille and I would hang out. And she told Lucille this. And so when she suggested well maybe Lucille should come with her and Ian to drop ","P1-N400772":"and they could go [inaudible at 00:30:29] she said no I'm staying with Daddy. And there's one point where just out of the blue for no reason whatever she just kind of came over and hugged my legs. [00:30:44]
THERAPIST: I think you mostly like to know that I'm here listening to what you have to say and that you're kind of in charge and that -
CLIENT: Well that's the easier position for you to think. You're along for the ride. I forgot what I was going to say. Well I have no one else to tell these things to is what I was going to say. I don't want to tell Marcia that my stomach's bothering me right now because then she'll say well maybe you ","P1-N4008F1":"should stay home; you should take it easier. I won't but you know. She is worried, concerned [00:42:42]
THERAPIST: I think you tend to -
CLIENT: Don't judge.
THERAPIST: yes, you don't want to hear anything I'm saying most of the time.
CLIENT: Say it; come on.
THERAPIST: I just did.
CLIENT: Oh, that I don't want to hear what you have to say?
THERAPIST: Part of it, yes. And then you -
CLIENT: Are you saying I need a new therapist?
THERAPIST: ignore that and totally say something else.
CLIENT: So what, I mean, you come in here and you complain about the way I talk to you. How is that helping me in I don't even know why I'm here. That's probably not true, but.
THERAPIST: Which part?
CLIENT: Why I'm here.
THERAPIST: And -
CLIENT: I mean this seems more like a -
THERAPIST: I'm not a it doesn't like you, you don't really tend to take what I say as reflecting much on you but rather as reflecting on me. In other words, if I think it's content -
CLIENT: But that's what I do.
THERAPIST: you don't want to hear what I have to say then you say well you're just complaining about how I talk to you. But it is at least not what I intend to be doing so much as playing out something about you that I think is relevant to what's going on.
CLIENT: Now you sound like Jess.
THERAPIST: Okay. You can stop.
CLIENT: Tuesday?
THERAPIST: Tuesday.
CLIENT: Enjoy your workout. Enjoy the money. [00:44:30]