TITLE: Client "J", Session July 16, 2013: Client discusses the recent hospitalization he had due to a flare up in his Crohn's disease.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses the recent hospitalization he had due to a flare up in his Crohn's disease.
CLIENT: ...They just gave me a valium.
THERAPIST: Where were you?
CLIENT: Hoag. Tuesday after here I went and met with Micah and I had kind of taken on, I don't know if I was anxious here but I had taken on this new case, conservatorship that I was a little anxious about and by the time I got to the doctor I was really anxious. I went home, I took a klonopin and did ","P1-N4000F1":"laundry and in the middle of laundry my stomach just started killing me and by the time I was done with laundry I was sitting, I didn't think I could drive home.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: This was one or two, so when I got home I took some Ultram which is actually my mom's but this is mediation I had been prescribed in the past when I had Crohn's pains and it had been over ten years since my last Crohn's at least, that I know of. As the night went on Marcia texted me to call ","P1-N400131":"the doctor, whatever, I used to be able to like call and get the resident on call, fellow on call and for some reason I couldn't find that number. [1:28] I'm like "What are they going to do, tell me to go to the ER?" so my doctor who I hadn't seen since 2010 is affiliated with the Hoag so I (inaudible) ","P1-N400132":"Hoag and you know, normal wait, emergency room and I go in they give me a CAT scan, come back, this is of course hours and they're like "Well, looks like you have a Crohn's flair," I'm like "No I don't, it's been ten years, I don't have Crohn's," and they're like "Yes, we're admitting you." So that ","P1-N400133":"was early Wednesday morning because when I got up to my bed it was about seven and I met with the doctor, she was leaving in 45 minutes for her shift and this was the first debacle, was that she had ordered, after they have given me morphine, apparently they just give you morphine in the ER when you ","P1-N400134":"come in in pain, good to know, she prescribes Tylenol, she orders Tylenol. I'm telling the medical student that Tylenol doesn't work on me. I take Advil which of course they don't want me taking.
THERAPIST: Why?
CLIENT: It's bad, the type of steroid it is or whatever is just not good for your intestines.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. [3:24]
CLIENT: Which I'm glad someone told me because I used to take that stuff like candy. I'm like "Tylenol doesn't work for me, I never take it because it doesn't work for me," and I even took 100 mg of Ultram yesterday and that didn't work for me. You're in there, you're in pain, the doctor's like "Well ","P1-N4001B1":"let's try this," and I'm like what am I supposed to say, "No?" So I said okay, tried it and it didn't work, comes back in, I actually said Tramadol and said Toradol and he started going off on toradol, "We can't give you Toradol, your kidney..." I go "No I didn't mean Toradol I meant Tramadol and by ","P1-N4001B2":"the way I can't take Tramadol because I took it yesterday, 100 mg and it didn't work," he's like arguing with me, "Well I can give you Oxycodone but that's addictive." He ended up saying "I'll give you a higher dose of Ultram," the nurse comes back with 50 mg of Ultram, I refused to take it and demanded ","P1-N4001B3":"to see a doctor. Finally the resident comes in and I explain to her what happened and she's like "Okay I'll give you Oxycodone." That was the first sort of ordeal, just getting some pain medication. [4:57]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: The attending finally comes in and she says that she's going to contact the doctor for my GI, this is like one or two o'clock Wednesday and I'm thinking to myself the moment that CAT scan came back showing Crohn's, isn't that when you reach out to someone's doctor? I don't know how it worked ","P1-N4001F1":"in the old days but they would call the answering service, "You have a patient in the hospital with Crohn's flair," that didn't happen.
THERAPIST: How dangerous is flair like that? I don't know...
CLIENT: This was pretty mild. I've had it as bad to where my intestine actually perforated so there were little micro-perforations, you know, gastric fluid leaking into my abdomen but that was after a long period of Crohn's. This was mild but she said she was going to reach out. I can't remember how ","P1-N400231":"she said she was going to contact the doctor but...it turns out he didn't get back with them until the morning because I think they just e-mailed him. [6:11] I'm trying to get the GI team to come see me, they've got me on liquid diet and I'm really struggling with managing the pain and the medication ","P1-N400232":"because they're not being very helpful and the resident was really weird but was very friendly but he's weird with the way he's sort of talking down to me about the Oxycodone or whatever. They actually lowered my dose on Thursday morning which was fine because, I even said "I don't know that the Oxycodone ","P1-N400233":"is working, I'm in pain and I'm really loopy, I don't want to take it, right now I'm just okay. I'm just going to suck it up." Like a half hour later the Oxycodone wore off and I was in a lot more pain so at least it was dulling the pain, bring me an Oxycodone.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Once again he started lecturing me and then he goes as far as to say "We're not going to give you IV pain meds." I said "I've never asked for IV pain meds." "I'm going to tell the next team coming on, the night team, that you're not to get IV pain meds." I'm like "I never asked for IV pain meds." ","P1-N400271":"Well, backing up to seven o'clock Wednesday night, I was standing in the bathroom peeing in my little urinal because they're pumping me with fluids so I have to measure my output, so I'm going in this little plastic thing and I start getting hot, sweating profusely, I go back and lay down, it's not ","P1-N400272":"getting worse, I don't feel right, I'm having trouble lifting my limbs, calling the nurse, the next thing you know they're running around me, EKG, x-rays, all kinds of tests being done on me and all that came back, blood work, it all came back normal. I ultimately got better. [8:18] So I'm looking at ","P1-N400273":"this and first of all they keep telling me that the pain is here and that Crohn's is down here, that this isn't Crohn's pain and looking at my symptoms and the fact that I went and partied fourth of July weekend, they think I'm going through alcohol withdrawal which pissed me off. I explained to them ","P1-N400274":"how much time had passed since I've had alcohol and it didn't help, actually I found this both humorous and I find it more humorous than I do find it damaging but when the med student was there he was asking me how much I drink on a normal basis, that's the hardest question because it's not like I have ","P1-N400275":"a normal schedule of drinking and it's not like I really drink when I'm not...I don't just have a drink or whatever, I'll have a couple beers at handball, out with Marcia, maybe we have a little more, so whatever I said, "Come on, you drink more than that!" (laughter) And then she apologized later, ","P1-N400276":"she said "Yeah I realized that probably wasn't a good thing to say." (laughter) I'm like "No I think it's hysterical." [9:44] Whatever she said, they were convinced you know, so I really kind of latched onto this thing so when they started talking about the IV pain meds I go "So you not only thinking ","P1-N400277":"I'm an alcoholic but now you think I'm a drug addict?" I am just beside myself and they gave me Oxycodone at like one on Thursday, no one came in to see me until about four and the nurse came in and I was depressed, I really was sad and I said to her, and she was brand new nurse which didn't help and ","P1-N400278":"I said "I feel neglected," and she's like "You know, I probably should've come back and checked on you after I gave you the pain meds," so she leaves the room and I mean thirty seconds later the med student comes waltzing in, grabs a chair, sits down next to me, starts chatting, turns out that he plays ","P1-N400279":"ultimate handball, we've probably played against each other, he plays for a really good team, we're going to see each other at the tournament, getting along great, really nice guy, just shitty med student.
THERAPIST: It sounds like it's a third (inaudible) med student or something and its July so he just started this rotation.
CLIENT: I'll get to that, I'll get to that. And then he's like "Oh by the way the GI team is coming tomorrow," and that was it, I'm just like "You guys diagnosed Crohn's early in the morning on Wednesday and I'm not going to see the GI team until Friday?" [11:17] Are you fucking kidding me? I just get ","P1-N4002B1":"more upset, you know, I don't know what to do, the night shift comes on, they ask me how I'm doing and I'm fucking miserable, they're like "What's the matter?" and I just start going off. One of the problems that I was having is that whenever I tried to explain myself no one would take the facts I'm ","P1-N4002B2":"saying into consideration, they wouldn't, you know, for instance they wanted to give me an Ativan for alcohol withdrawal and I realized about an hour before the pain set in I had taken a klonopin, another benzo, so I mean...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Why would alcohol withdrawal come on after I took a benzo? So they're just not listening to me. They're giving me a CWAT test where, asking about your symptoms, kind of how they track how long you withdrawal, see if it's getting worse, I guess there's some condition that some people die from, ","P1-N4002F1":"for really crazy alcoholics.
THERAPIST: Did the diagnosis of alcohol withdrawal make any sense whatsoever to you?
CLIENT: Hm mm.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: No, I mean when I was drinking at my highest, I was drinking and I went into the (inaudible) where they told me I couldn't drink so I stopped drinking, I went inpatient clinic, I stopped drinking and I didn't start drinking until I got out of McClain. I never went through withdrawal. I get headaches ","P1-N400371":"when I stop drinking coffee for a few days, that's the only withdrawal I've ever been through in life.
THERAPIST: If that was an issue we would've run across long before now.
CLIENT: Briefly at (inaudible), I can't remember that place, they put me on a dual diagnosis, U Arbor, yeah but they were drug testing me every day, they were probably coming up with pot and beer because I asked them if I could do it and they said "Yes," so I did, you know? [13:23] It's just really ","P1-N4003B1":"touched a chord with me, I don't know why but I really was upset about it, in fact Thursday morning I went through a similar episode just not as bad, while Marcia was there and I could see the look in her face, I don't look good I can just tell by the look on her face, the way she looks.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I have no explanation for this whatsoever, other than alcohol withdrawal.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So whenever I tried to talk and say things should be a certain way or whatever, everyday got really defensive. When something didn't happen or was delayed or whatever, "We're a teaching hospital," in fact when I first got there, some administrator comes out in the waiting room of the ER and ","P1-N400431":"she says "I have to apologize for you guys waiting so long but this is a teaching hospital and this is July and this is the worst time to get sick." In fact when I told the resident that she had said that she was like "Are you kidding?" In fact when I called my dad the next morning he's like "July and ","P1-N400432":"August is the worst to get sick." Every excuse was it was a teaching hospital or they would combat what I would say, I'm just not being listened to which was the most frustrating part. Luckily these two women were very nice, the technician and the nurse because I was screaming at them and the nurse ","P1-N400433":"was like "It's over, you'll be better from here, just..." whatever, I couldn't, I was so enraged.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [15:06]
CLIENT: The tech she's like "Maybe you should ask to see the supervisor." I guess the supervising doctor...so I asked for the supervising doctor while I was seeing the supervising nurse, she pages the supervising doctor, who I don't really figure out, was my resident, she's the supervising resident who went home.
THERAPIST: Did she press it anymore?
CLIENT: She's the supervising resident.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: It was even at one point, this was like quarter until eleven, I'm just pissed off every time they come in and some of the nurses are really nice to me, so they were advocates on that side. Just all this, I was upset because I wanted to see the supervising doctor so they send in the new supervising ","P1-N4004F1":"nurse and the on-call doctor and the funny thing is Marcia had brought me Reece's, gummy bears and some snow caps and I was so frustrated I just grabbed a handful, I threw a gummy bear in my mouth, grabbed a handful of gummy bears and they walk, I swallow it and I'm standing like this with a handful ","P1-N4004F2":"of gummy bears in my hand, so I know I can tolerate food but I don't want to say anything right and they're like "We can't do anything until the morning, what do you want us to do?" I'm like "Listen, I never asked you to come in here," my poor roommate who just came in that day, I'm just yelling and ","P1-N4004F3":"screaming all day long. [16:34] I'm like "I did not ask you to come in here!" I had written a long letter to patient relations blasting Dr. Horse, which was wrong.
THERAPIST: Which was that?
CLIENT: My GI, saying that he abandoned me.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I got some incorrect information you know.
THERAPIST: About when he got back to them or something?
CLIENT: Yeah and the reality is that they didn't contact him properly. They should've contacted the GI team that day. So I get woken up at a quarter until seven, they finished a GI fellow Friday morning. I'm telling you much of the story was more (inaudible) forgotten a lot and every time I'd tell her ","P1-N4005B1":"something she'd go...I'm like "You have trouble hiding your emotions here you know?"
THERAPIST: (laughter)
CLIENT: I told her about the med student and she was like "This is a teaching hospital, I'm a consultant, I'll go talk to your team." The med students got to learn, some of the stuff he did wasn't right. I went back down, she of course tells me I'm going to go on steroids, probably three to five days ","P1-N4005F1":"IV, that means three to five days in the hospital, maybe shorter but when the GI attending comes in he'll make that decision, he'll come in later...
THERAPIST: I see. [17:54] This is with (inaudible)?
CLIENT: I'm talking with (inaudible), yeah. She was great, she's like "Yeah, Crohn's here, pain here, that's Crohn's pain." The sweating and...
THERAPIST: Heat?
CLIENT: Hot?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That's probably from the pain. Liquid diet, "you should have been on a solid diet from the moment you got in here to see if you could tolerate food." Basically the three things they look for is, are you stable? Can you tolerate food? Can we manage your pain? If those three things are happening ","P1-N4006B1":"we send you home.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I'm lying down, about to fall back asleep, got my headphones on and in waltzes Ginger, the resident and Zuri the med student, they both grab chairs and sit down "Jay, we got to talk."
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: Ginger's like "Put your bed up, I'm not talking while you're lying down." So I'm coming up, I'm like "Am I being reprimanded?" She's like "No." So we have a conversation, it was a long conversation, I don't remember much of it other than once again them defending everything that I said.
THERAPIST: Defending everything they said?
CLIENT: Right and basically whatever I said they had some excuse for, even when I said the thing about the higher dose of Ultram, the med student's like "I didn't have that in my notes," it's like "If you took notes as I said things, you might have it but when you go out of the room and take your notes ","P1-N400771":"it doesn't help. Who do you guys think you are? Dr. Lowenstein, you know?" [19:44] Those guys leave and I just break down crying I was so beaten at that point...I'm going to be here three to five days, this...you know, I'm beaten. The GI has confirmed that everything I'm upset with I should be upset with.
THERAPIST: Right. That is incredibly helpful because it all makes sense to her and the diagnosis is Crohn's, it makes sense...
CLIENT: I got this new, this day nurse I had, Jen, very nice, cute little lady but she was a robot. I'm crying and she's like "There, there, there, go ahead, it's okay, cry (monotone voice), there..." I'm just like this is getting worse.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I regroup, I lay back down and in comes the resident supervisor. She's like "I just spoke with the attending and the doctor and we just want to know would you prefer the med student not come in anymore?" I said "You betcha! I really like her though, but you know..." We start chatting and I'm ","P1-N4007F1":"glad because the attending picked up on this, she noticed that something wasn't right and so as she was listening to me without the resident there, me telling her what the resident was saying, what he was doing, things going wrong with the nurse...
THERAPIST: The med student wasn't there?
CLIENT: Right. She realized that they were not reporting to her accurately about my condition. [21:39] They were saying if I was pain that I was fine. You saw the light bulb go off in her head, we ended up chatting for a long time, becoming best buddies, she loves my humor. We're going through all things ","P1-N400831":"like problems with the med system, you know, she did a complete 180 and I really started feeling great. I was like "You know, when patient relations comes I'm going to rescind everything," a lot of it was miscommunication, like she said and this was true is that it was a perfect storm, it wasn't one ","P1-N400832":"thing that happened...
THERAPIST: It was part of their job!
CLIENT: It was a lot of fuck-ups.
THERAPIST: I would imagine if you're a med student just starting out seeing patients, a lot of your job is to communicate accurately what you've heard from the patient knowing that you're qualified to give some opinion but not at all to have a say in what happens so being able to communicate accurately ","P1-N400891":"and clearly what you've heard from the patient is to me like a pretty central feature of your job.
CLIENT: She's like "I'm your doctor, I'll come and check on you," instead of the med student and I felt better because she finally saw what I saw, she kept apologizing for it and she leaves and it's funny I had wrote all this stuff on the board, you know, this chart...questions, your nurse, your technician, ","P1-N4008B1":"your doctor, whatever, doctor I wrote "none," other I wrote "Moe, Larry, Curly," question... "Will I see my doctors when they finish golfing," or something like that. No, your plan, the plan was something about seeing the doctors when they finished golfing, which I stole from Marcia, she was like "The ","P1-N4008B2":"GI team will see you when they're done golfing." [23:51] On the bottom I wrote "Where's the GI team, where is something?" The fellow went and erased "Where's the GI team?" (laughter) She says to me "By the end of the day my goal is to have you write your name under doctor." As soon as she left I went ","P1-N4008B3":"up and wrote her name, it was that good of a conversation. Next thing you know a nurse comes in "Someone tells me that you like coffee? Want a coffee?"
THERAPIST: (laughter)
CLIENT: I'm like "Hey?" You know it! So she goes and gets me a coffee and brings it back. When she saw that they got me a small she was pissed. She said "We thought about getting you flowers but..." but when they brought in my liquid diet that morning she's like "I noticed the first thing you grabbed ","P1-N4008F1":"for was the coffee so I figured..." She took me for a coffee guy, they have a kiosk but it's not good, I said "Whatever." Then I saw the GI attending and I had already had a real breakfast and he was pissed that they weren't contacted right away when I had Crohn's, he agree with the fellow who bitched ","P1-N4008F2":"out my team.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: They put me on steroids and I didn't pick it up at first but when they gave me the steroids they gave me oral not IV so they said "You'll probably go home this weekend." [25:38] She came in and said she spoke to my dad, maybe it was like a conference, one of them talked to my dad and afterward ","P1-N400931":"I talked to my dad and he ripped, just ripped them and she came back and said "I spoke to your dad, he's nice, we had a conversation..." Later that day she comes in "Do you want to go home?" "You betcha!"
THERAPIST: This is...?
CLIENT: One of the things, she picked up, she's like "Do you have some anxiety?" I go "Yeah I'm on klonopin and I could probably use one." She's like "Okay." She kept saying how my Oxycontin was Q6 and I change it to Q4...she kept telling me and finally she's like "I just put in an order for you. I ","P1-N400971":"even put in IV pain meds, IV morphine if you want it." I'm like "I don't need IV!" as much as I said "This would be really cool, but..." They weren't going to let me go if I take IV's. (laughter) I don't need it.
THERAPIST: This is late in the day on Friday?
CLIENT: This is Friday. I got out on Friday, they had to tell me to get out. [26:57] One of the things that she picked up I was very anxious about was that I had parked in the parking lot that did not affiliate with Hoag, I won't even get into the hour it took me to find the emergency room. I was walking ","P1-N4009B1":"around the campus because I went to the old Hoag emergency room. They tried to get the garage to give me a deal, had I been with the garage it's 24 hours free, $5 a day, well the garage wouldn't do anything but they actually got the hospital to give me $40 after all I'd been through. I felt vindicated, ","P1-N4009B2":"just in all the little things that she had gone through, she really was making an effort and...the problem, teaching hospital, the nurse, the med student, GI team was overwhelmed, there is an order out from the Department of Public Health that they can actually put beds in the hallways because they're ","P1-N4009B3":"so overwhelmed, somehow I got into my bed within seven hours. [28:22] Most people coming up from the ER were 21, 24 hours, I don't know how I get in but it happened. She came in and said "Do you want to go home," and I was like "Yeah," she goes "Well your tolerating food, your pain is manageable and ","P1-N4009B4":"you're stable." One of the things the GI attending said was "Don't take Oxycodone, it's not good for the intestines, it can cause fissures," and whatnot. She still gave me a prescription for ten Oxycodone anyways. So I left, I just, I was high as a fucking kite, just so fucking glad to be out of there ","P1-N4009B5":"and Marcia came up and I was like, "I'm going to keep two of these Oxycodone's," I gave some to her, gave some to my buddy Benji, I don't want them. I took one, maybe I had more than two, I don't know but we started drinking and I ended up raging for all Friday night and I...just the adrenaline going ","P1-N4009B6":"through me, I mean I was like a little chatterbox, Marcia's like "You just won't shut up," and I was like "Well now you know how I feel." It was...
THERAPIST: You're out of character?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah and felt a little rough Saturday morning but I don't think (inaudible). [30:09] A couple interesting things happened, Marcia came Wednesday, Thursday, and she was trying to figure out to come Friday night but she didn't come there when the kids and Jess were going to be there so I ","P1-N4009F1":"was trying to manage that and I was pissed off at Jess because Thursday night she's like "The kids..." first of all Lucille wasn't all that excited about being there, she just wanted to leave which was fine. You guys show up, she wants to leave, fine, at least I get to see someone you know? It's like ","P1-N4009F2":"no one has come to visit me except for Marcia. She's like "The kids had a late dinner last night, Ian has his stilting lesson at four," every excuse in the world not to bring them there, same bullshit that went on with Barney and I got pissed off. "This is the first time this has happened, whatever," ","P1-N4009F3":"so that was adding to it, that was Thursday so it was just fueling everything else. I'm just glad they let me out on Friday and I didn't have to deal with managing when they could come because Jess's like "I don't know when I'm going to be there." Marcia's in Watertown so it's not like I can be "Hey ","P1-N4009F4":"you can come now." So that was going on and then another interesting thing was twenty years ago my dad wanted me to be someone who's affiliated with the hospital and the doctor was affiliated with another hospital. I said "You know my dad's concerned. He wants to make sure I'm at a good hospital." He's ","P1-N4009F5":"like "You can tell your dad that it's a Wellesley teaching hospital." That satisfied my dad. It's ironic that the whole reason I was at that hospital was because of the doctor was affiliated with the hospital and the only reason I was with him is because he was with a Wellesley teaching hospital which ","P1-N4009F6":"had become the excuse for all my problems. [32:21] Something that started out as the positive became (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I saw a great irony in that. Yeah it was a fucking ordeal. I'm leaving out a ton of shit that happened but it was just a fucking ordeal. I just, it's like they come in and give you this CWAT test, it's like do you have headaches, are you...tremors, are you agitated? You betcha I'm fucking agitated. ","P1-N400A31":"(chuckles) After those episodes of the sweating, that was my only symptom was agitation. Why am I agitated? Because you guys think I'm in treatment and alcoholic instead of someone that has Crohn's.
THERAPIST: And as you said because they weren't listening and then as it became clear later getting right what was, listening to what you were saying or getting right what was going on which they should have.
CLIENT: My dad was yelling at the attending that I spent two days in the hospital or they've lost two days...Had I seen the GI team on Wednesday I wasn't leaving Wednesday, maybe I would have gotten out on Thursday so it maybe cost me a day but...
THERAPIST: It cost you a lot of agitation is what it cost you. [34:02]
CLIENT: Yeah there was pain, there was this, and none of this was good for me, you know, I don't know why I have Crohn's now, I'm just baffled.
THERAPIST: It's often stress related right? And things are quite a bit less stressful than they were six months, a year...
CLIENT: And I'm wondering, I've probably had some small flare, and as it turns out my white blood count was down, my Crohn's markers were normal and I think I'm one of those people that can have Crohn's...
THERAPIST: (over talking) with Crohn's...
CLIENT: Yeah because it's an inflammation.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: So I'm probably just one of those people that has a Crohn's flare and it doesn't show up on the tests because they can't make the test sensitive enough or everybody would show positive.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: One of those things...they're not a hundred percent. Had I at least seen the GI team early I would have been on solid foods, I would've had the right pain medication, everything would've been done properly, they wouldn't have put me through this shit about the withdrawal, you don't blame the ","P1-N400BB1":"resident and the attending for not knowing how to treat someone with Crohn's, it's a specialty but that's why you call the specialist first thing. [35:20] Yeah, it was fucking rough and stupid shit like I didn't have any underwear, I asked Jess to bring my computer, one of the things I wanted was my ","P1-N400BB2":"computer bag because it had some work in it that I should have done forever ago.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: She can't find my computer bag which was sitting right by the bed so she brings just the computer and I'm trying to get her to go back and get some underwear and the computer bag and "I can't do it, why don't you have Marcia do it..." I'm like "Marcia lives in Watertown, make her go to Andover..." ","P1-N400BF1":"I don't know. Jess was being very helpful and as much as she seemed concerned, whatever. I was very glad that Marcia came, she brought me candy, Maxim magazine, I've never read a Maxim magazine before, she's like "I like the articles." I'd say I like the pictures but Alyssa Milano did something to her ","P1-N400BF2":"face and she just doesn't look right, I just can't look at it. When I got out she kept saying "I'm glad you're out," and she came over and was washing some dishes and you know, the next day I kind of at first wasn't feeling good, tired and she was like "I'll just let your rest." I said "Nah, let's just ","P1-N400BF3":"go to the farm," so we went to the farm and picked up the veggies and (inaudible) her dog. She had a ball at the farm, the dog Bibi, when we got home just slept, tiring night, was so exhausted, we went on walks and stuff, it's the city so it's like country dog in the city, it's an all new experience. ","P1-N400BF4":"[37:17] I think from that standpoint, you know, it made me a little more comfortable with Marcia. Like last night I wasn't hearing from her text wise and she's like doing whatever so I feel more comfortable, so that is a positive that came out of it. One of the things I and I don't know why I did this ","P1-N400BF5":"but I asked Marcia if she wanted to see the kids, meet the kids, you know and she kind of said yes but she wanted to take this relationship slow but thanked me for asking her. I'm like was that a "Yes, you want to see the kids?" and she said "Yes I'd love to meet the kids," so I kind of send an e-mail ","P1-N400BF6":"and this is before I went to the hospital.
THERAPIST: Oh this is all before you went to the hospital?
CLIENT: This was a while ago, yeah. I sent an e-mail to Jess, "I don't know how to handle this..."
THERAPIST: We had talked about it but I didn't realize you had...
CLIENT: "I don't know how to handle this," maybe it was Tuesday I sent the e-mail? "We've been going out three months and I'd like her to at least meet Ian," and I think her meeting Lucille is going to be less of a problem because Lucille's (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So finally yesterday I get a reply from Jess. "I'm really glad you asked me and that your including me in the decision and that's what all the experts say, I'm glad you and Marcia are getting along so well and blah blah blah...but pretty much across the board they say not to introduce the kids ","P1-N400CB1":"before six months." I googled it and she's right, right there on the Huffington Post, divorce page, six months...[39:22] So you know, it is what it is. Jess really went out of her way though to show extra appreciation that I asked her.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: But I don't know if this six months bullshit is, you know, I'm not going to fight it. I'm not even going to mention it to Marcia. I'm kind of upset because I've lost a week of exercise, I'm weaker because I'm not exercising, I've got a tournament next weekend in Ohio and I don't know if I should ","P1-N400CF1":"go do my work out tomorrow, I'm just...I'm bummed I've got Crohn's.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I'm on fucking steroids which I hate, I'm already breaking out, finally been getting rid of my acne from the testosterone from working out and now my whole chest is all broken out. At least Marcia has Crohn's so she knows about it so...
THERAPIST: That's (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah she's supposed to be on the maintenance medication but she doesn't take it. So she's had problems. Now I've got to go get a colonoscopy and of course the post discharge date with the doctor that they wanted to schedule was the day I'm coming back from Ohio and I can't make that day. She's ","P1-N400D71":"like the next day is October and I was like "Whoa, whoa, whoa, this is a post-discharge appointment, I just got out of the hospital on Friday, I was given some prednisone with says no refill, this is to last until you see the doctor." "Well let me e-mail him and see if..." [41:24] This is fucking...why ","P1-N400D72":"doctors are communicating by e-mail, I don't know, that's the least effective means of communication because you can't judge urgency by e-mail, you know? You see it in your inbox, you do other stuff. You don't read it right away. You get a call from answering service "you have a patient in the hospital," ","P1-N400D73":"you understand the urgency.
THERAPIST: Mm hmm.
CLIENT: So I've got an appointment with Huntsman. I was actually supposed to see him on Wednesday as a follow up for my blood pressure, Viagra thing but I'm seeing him Thursday and he's going to be like "I told you so, should've been going to see the doctor," he reprimands me all the time for not going ","P1-N400DB1":"to see him. Work is incredibly slow and I guess that was the one good thing is that I didn't have a ton to do but I was at the registry yesterday in Concord at 15th, it was packed, tons of closings going on. I've got one closing coming up at the end of the month. I've got an eviction and some small ","P1-N400DB2":"things going on but I don't know, rates are going up, I don't know...[43:00] (inaudible whispering) (pause) Now I kind of get a little bit of pain but it goes away and last night I just ate a lot and this is the prednisone, you just eat a ton and my stomach was all, I've been very gassy, my stomach ","P1-N400DB3":"was all fucked up last night from eating too much. So I took some Ultram for that and I had trouble falling asleep, I got to try and control that.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Whoa! Time flies when you're having fun!
THERAPIST: I'm glad you're the hell out of there.
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: I'm glad you're the hell out of there.
CLIENT: Me too, thanks.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: See you Friday? (inaudible) Tuesday.