TITLE: Client "J", Session June 25, 2013: Client is getting back on track with his work and life, but is always worried and anxious that it will all fall apart. Client discusses the relationship he has with his children and girlfriend.
DESCRIPTION: Client is getting back on track with his work and life, but is always worried and anxious that it will all fall apart. Client discusses the relationship he has with his children and girlfriend.
THERAPIST: That was an interesting association, how I might spend that.
CLIENT: From prostitutes to rent.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You know what's the nice thing about your waiting room? Is someone could come in and I don't even have to look up or say hi or do anything, because they can just assume that I'm antisocial and, you know, a freak or something like that. So on Tuesday, I went and I saw Micah, and I was very anxious. ","P1-N400111":"So I told her what Huntsman said and I told her how worthless you were, and she said well, you know, I was she understood his position, my position, and thought it was good that we weren't going to be trying to find a new drug and that I was willing to stay on the Prozac. [0:01:13.5]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it was just like a huge relief. The anxiety kind of I don't want to say it almost went away immediately. I had been taking 20, just because I knew I wanted to stay on it, so she said take 30 for a week and then go back to 40.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so the first couple days, she said stop taking the Ativan, I go back to the Klonopin, and take one before you go to bed, which seemed to help. I don't know if it was taking the 30 of -
THERAPIST: Sorry, take one of which before you go to bed?
CLIENT: Klonopin.
THERAPIST: Klonopin?
CLIENT: Yeah. It was only like one dose of 30 and it was like that first Wednesday, just very little anxiety. I felt pretty good. Things were really busy. I got a call on Thursday from one of my title examination guys needs a one-day turnaround. [00:02:19]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I had to we talked about that.
THERAPIST: I think you did on Friday.
CLIENT: Yeah, we did talk Friday. So, you know, it was a good weekend. I don't know why I think today is maybe it's because I come on Fridays too, but on Tuesdays I feel like it's Friday, even though it was just Monday. But I had no anxiety over the weekend.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I didn't need to use a Viagra.
THERAPIST: Good, oh that's great.
CLIENT: Though, I probably still should. It kind of wore off after a while. That could be the alcohol, who knows.
THERAPIST: Things are going better sexually though?
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Good, that's great.
CLIENT: I mean it couldn't be worse, it couldn't have gotten worse.
THERAPIST: It could have gotten worse?
CLIENT: It couldn't.
THERAPIST: Couldn't have gotten worse. [00:03:19]
CLIENT: And even, I fucked this thing up with you know, like a E&G member. Mechanics lien is something I've kind of dabbled around, but it's something that I thought I felt comfortable doing. I knew he needed a written contract, so I wrote them to explain what they need to do and they ultimately said, ","P1-N400411":"we'll just pay you to do it. And they didn't have a signed contract. They had like an invoice with everything out, like an estimate, and they had a credit card receipt that was signed and, you know. So at first I was like, you know, this is probably good enough, and then I decided this morning that ","P1-N400412":"it probably wasn't good enough, after I had already gotten the document signed. So I sent them an e-mail this morning saying, you know. I just don't think it's going to fly and it's not worth it, and I kind of told them it would yesterday. So, I'm not going to charge them. I mean it's not like they ","P1-N400413":"really lost anything, other than a lien for a short period of time, until they get in the small claims court. That's why, it's like I don't want them to go into small claims and have to be fighting over whether there was a signature on the contract or not. I don't even think they would be able to make ","P1-N400414":"that argument in small claims. The magistrate would be like that's not a signed contract. Where, you know, you file a nice long motion and you get to argue in front of a real judge and they think about it. And they still would reject it but you at least had some leverage of attorney's fees on the other side.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [00:05:04]
CLIENT: But I was like, you know, initially I was like oh, and then it just didn't bother me. I wrote the e-mail. Usually I feel bad about missing kind of stuff like that, because I read the statute, and I think the second time I read the statute, somewhere in there made me think that you had a lien ","P1-N400451":"even if you didn't have even a written contract. It's like I just forgot that out of the blue by reading the statute. I'm like oh, you know, everything I've known goes against what I thought I read in the statute, but I still went with what I read in the statute, probably because I'm just not experienced ","P1-N400452":"enough in that area. Now I know. But it was still, you know. They don't understand why they don't have a written contract. [00:06:09]
THERAPIST: You went to Sherwood to see music or something?
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: You went to Sherwood to see music or something and then you dropped your friends off on the way back.
CLIENT: Right, and then we went to our hotel.
THERAPIST: Right, which was in Barneston.
CLIENT: Throughout the ride, she's like, "You're bring quiet." Of course, she's not saying anything. And then when we got back to the room, she kind of repeated a couple times how different we were, or something like that. It was like, she goes through these little, like weird little freak out things ","P1-N400531":"like that, but she didn't bring it up again in the morning or anything like that. I ended up just falling asleep after a while. She has a lot of energy. [00:07:29]
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: But last night she was tired. I think it was the heat, the heat sucks. I've got to play handball today. I did my workout yesterday with my trainer, because I canceled on him last Wednesday. So I was like, is it crazy for me to do it twice in one week? Because I really need the motivation to ","P1-N400571":"work out at home too, which I was like, I'd better go Monday and work out with him, and it was fucking hot. But it only took me about six more minutes to go through my workout. I'm not even close to failure on any of the reps and any of the point. I was nauseous and had dizziness but it was fucking ","P1-N400572":"95 degrees and all I'd eaten was a Cliff Bar all day. I think I'm going to have trouble tonight, because running, I think for me is a different story with the humidity, because you've got to breathe so much and in the humid air, I just wilt. Hopefully, yesterday was a sign that I'm getting a little ","P1-N400573":"used to it, which is for, you know, not even July yet, is pretty good. Usually by now, we've had one heat wave and it was in April, not that I guess I've got to find something positive in the scorching... At least I can dress like a shlub for work. So, I met with the banker yesterday.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:09:06]
CLIENT: It went very well.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's great.
CLIENT: The drycleaner opened at eight. Of course, I walked by at five to eight and they were closed at eight-thirty.
THERAPIST: Were you there today?
CLIENT: Yeah. But I got dressed up not quite in a suit, but -
THERAPIST: Because you couldn't get your suit.
CLIENT: at least how someone might dress with hot weather. But then I called at five after and they were open, so I ran down and got my suit. I broke the laces on my nice shoes, so I brought my crappy shoes, I had to polish those. So I went down and she already because she had been to a couple E&G ","P1-N400671":"meetings, and we'd only spoken briefly, but she kind of knew my personality and being funny from doing the E&G thing or whatever. So she was like basically, it wasn't even let's talk about each other or whatever. It was really like everything she talked about was their process and how she's going to ","P1-N400672":"send me business, how she's already got a deal in Peabody that, you know, if she gets that deal, she's like you'll do the closing.
THERAPIST: That's great. [00:10:19]
CLIENT: And I said, so can you get me into the hockey game tonight? She's like you know it's funny, I have two tickets. They have two boxes and I guess, I don't know, they have some special connection to the arena.
THERAPIST: What's it called now?
CLIENT: The arena.
THERAPIST: Were you sort of kidding about that?
CLIENT: I was, yeah. But I guess she had a client.
THERAPIST: It took me a minute to get that.
CLIENT: She had a client who got tickets for the last game and he asked for tickets to the next game, and she sent an e-mail to some higher up and they were like sure. But she doesn't get tickets. But she said, you know, when games start up next season, to ask her.
THERAPIST: Great.
CLIENT: So, you know, it's small business, so I think most of the deals are under $500,000, $500,000 and less, but I can charge about $350 more than I charge on a residential deal, and I'm more likely to see the deals in the three, four, five range, as opposed to the one, two three range, which means ","P1-N4007B1":"I'll be making more on the title insurance.
THERAPIST: Good. [00:11:37]
CLIENT: So I think initially, she works out of Essex, but it's kind of to her advantage because in Essex, they've got a bunch of banks, which are like I mean, obviously they're institutions, like everybody loves them, everybody knows everyone there.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: They're like the perfect places to work for. But, you know, like me trying to get in there and trying to get some closings out of it is just a pipe dream at this point. But that's her competition.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, it's to her benefit to get referrals from all over, and so when she has stuff around Pembroke, she's going to send it to me.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: Which is weird, that I can get small business, business from the bank, but I can't get on their residential closing list because it's closed. Once they open the list, I can get on it. I don't know how many loans that would generate in a big bank. I don't know how they would divvy them out, but ","P1-N4008B1":"obviously, if I brought them a deal, I can close it.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:13:04]
CLIENT: Because I know that was with the other bank. You had to bring six deals to. I don't think I have that many to give in a year, maybe that is my yearly. So that went well but it's not anything that it ultimately, you know, because there are the bankers at the branches in Pembroke too. The woman ","P1-N4008F1":"in my E&G group, I already spoke to one of them. She wants to meet me, so I've got to push that a little bit. (pause) At some point, I might actually start making money, it just might happen. Banks are more reliable. That was the hardest thing about all the business I missed. Ray was kind of loafing ","P1-N4008F2":"off, but the bank business was the most reliable, the easiest, in terms of just, you had say, as the closing attorney, to where the closing was, when it was going to be, what day you could schedule it for. You had usually, plenty of time to schedule it, where now it's Cameron, we're closing this tomorrow. ","P1-N4008F3":"We don't have the clear to close yet, so you should schedule it either late afternoon or early evening. That's how they all seem to be these days. Not all the banks are like that though, because some of these purchases I've been involved with, the banks have been awful. [00:15:05]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I said, well I'll host it, but Curtis does have a larger apartment, he has a larger deck, he has a backyard, he has a grill. So if Curtis says we can use all that, I'll host it. I guess I would buy the beer and the food, and I'm sure Curtis would rather me just pay rent and he buys the beer ","P1-N400951":"and food, I don't know. I haven't heard back. But that would make it easy, if I just had to go downstairs on the 4th of July. (pause) I don't know what Marcia is doing. She even told me people complain that she doesn't make plans. We're going to a wedding this weekend, so obviously, you've got to do that.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:16:20]
CLIENT: Or if there's a concert or some type of event, but something open ended, like something on the 4th of July, where she doesn't have anything specific, she's not going to commit to anything. She's like yeah, we'll see. She made me dinner last night.
THERAPIST: Nice.
CLIENT: Slaved over a hot stove in 95-degree weather. (laughs) It was good.
THERAPIST: It was good?
CLIENT: Yeah. She likes potatoes, so the potatoes were really good.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Then we went over a friend of hers house, to watch the hockey team choke.
THERAPIST: Oh, did they choke? I heard they lost but I didn't know they choked.
CLIENT: They were up 2-1 and then it tied 2-2. It was 2-1 and there was only a couple of minutes left in the game. Maybe there was like five minutes in the game and they went up 2-1, but then they gave up 2-2, and then with like 50 seconds left, 30 seconds left, -
THERAPIST: No. [00:17:31]
CLIENT: they gave up the winning goal.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: The funny thing is, and I didn't want to say anything because these are like serious hockey fans, and I didn't want to say anything bad about anyone at the end of the game, because it was a great game, both sides, I mean it was just action packed, had that second go ahead goal for 2-1, a beautiful ","P1-N400B11":"goal, and he didn't see the guy coming across the middle, who scored the winning goal for the other team. He was the guy like two feet away from him.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So it's hard to tell from the replay, whether he could have gotten there or should have gotten there, but it didn't look good, so it was like oh, you know? The guy has the go ahead goal, but did he give up the winning goal? I don't know. I'm sorry, I knew you're trying to yeah, the fake, like ","P1-N400B51":"you're interested in sports. I know it's your job. [00:18:38]
THERAPIST: You mean like immediately?
CLIENT: No. Instead of Jess coming to pick her up, that I was to drive her home. She kept pointing that out. They had fun. We brought another bag of toys, so there's a lot of toys there now.
THERAPIST: Oh, great.
CLIENT: It doesn't take much to occupy her. So we went to the restaurant and the both behaved really well. I got a mac and cheese, Lucille had a single macaroni shell. Ian ate maybe a third of his, and I've got a lot of macaroni and cheese in my refrigerator now, for a late lunch. But they both behaved ","P1-N400BF1":"and I was like, maybe we should just go straight to the car and Lucille didn't understand what I was talking about, like instead of going up to the apartment and then going to the car.
THERAPIST: Right, yeah. [00:20:56]
CLIENT: That we needed to grab their stuff. Lucille was like no, no, no. She was like, I'm going to ride with daddy home, in daddy's car or whatever, and I was like no, no, don't worry. And so I'm dropping them off and Jess was outside, and I said to Lucille, "Did you have fun at dada's house?" And ","P1-N400C31":"she's like yeah, and she immediately runs over to Jess and goes, "I had fun at dada's house."
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: I don't think she understands what that means but she was proud of it. It was like, it didn't even cross her mind and she's like, I had fun at dad's house, I'm going to go tell mommy. So, it went well, no I want my mommy, no tears.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: I asked her... I don't know what Jess tells these kids, but I said to Lucille, so at what age do you want to start sleeping over daddy's, and she goes four, and that's the age that Jess put in the first draft of the separation agreement.
THERAPIST: Wow. [00:22:09]
CLIENT: So, one of several scenarios happened.
THERAPIST: How old is she now?
CLIENT: She's like two and a half, I mean not quite two and a half. They obviously talked about it and I don't know if Lucille brought it up because Ian sleeps over, you know, when am I going to sleep over, or Jess was telling her, you'll go sleep over daddy's, and she was like I don't want to leave ","P1-N400D31":"mommy. I don't think she understands that sleeping over, that Jess's not going to be there and it's a long period of time.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure.
CLIENT: She was obviously told that at four years old, she was going to sleep over. It was just too quick and uncanny, and then Ian just thought she just picked a number but I don't know.
THERAPIST: It's like everybody is kind of coming through for you this week. [00:23:13]
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, it seems like that was the -
THERAPIST: Except maybe me, but we'll see.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, that's usually a problem. No, but ever since I saw Micah, that obviously, going back on the Prozac was a very you know, producing a lot of anxiety in and of itself, just the whole medication change.
THERAPIST: Right. Not going back on Prozac, yes.
CLIENT: Yeah, either way though, but then once I saw Huntsman, I decided I really wanted to go back on the... you know? So having that resolved, for better or for worse it was resolved.
THERAPIST: Well it sounds like it's been for better, you know having been.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean that's the thing, the results.
THERAPIST: And because of the sexual side effects, but at least so far that hasn't been an issue from it, you know the problem may not have resulted from the Prozac. [00:24:24]
CLIENT: That's, I think what you have been saying all along. I just brain farted. Another thing I wonder about, is because I hadn't gone up to 30 really. I had taken one dose of 30, that I'm wondering if 40 is ultimately going to be too much. I took 40 today. I was a little I drove around a lot yesterday ","P1-N400EB1":"and I was just noticing, I was hitting all the red lights, and it was very, get to appointment, to appointment, get back to the office, get a lot of work done. So it wasn't like super stressful but there was definitely some stress there. I couldn't tell if I was getting aggravated or not, so it's not ","P1-N400EB2":"like I was angry or road rage or anything like that, but I was getting a little bothered here and there. But then something like that, which hadn't been bothering me. I broke the string on my shoe, the drycleaners was closed. I went and had the meeting, I had no anxiety over the meeting, it went really well.
THERAPIST: That's great. [00:26:01]
CLIENT: I've been sending invoices to Jess, and so Jess opens them up and she freaks out and she's like look, we have this invoice for $2,500. I'm thinking to myself, $2,500? I already paid for the partnership return and it should just be our personal. I ignore her, I say oh, don't worry, I'll take ","P1-N400EF1":"care of it, you know, I'll say we don't owe that much money. At one point, I became even if we did, I'm like that was like $2,400, I was like where am I going to get $2,400 to pay the accountant, among all the other people I've got to pay. Then Candace calls me and when Candace calls, she wants money ","P1-N400EF2":"or me to sign the engagement letter, you know she's tracking me down. So she's like, "How are you doing Cameron?" I'm like, "Not good, I'm talking to you." (chuckles) So, I had a recent invoice and only owed like $750, for what I thought I owed the money for. So that was what I was thinking of doing. ","P1-N400EF3":"I've been doing my Google Spreadsheet things, which has been really effective.
THERAPIST: Good. [00:27:21]
CLIENT: Like when I got back to Pembroke, and it's like I don't even have to fill it out all the way, like for the mileage. I just put Insurance, Flooring, because those were the two places I went to. So I know I went there and I can go back and fill it in when I'm in the office. I was thinking of creating ","P1-N400F31":"one for big expenses I owe, so when I get money in, I can look at my situation and make -
THERAPIST: See what you should pay.
CLIENT: Exactly. That was the thing that kind of, sort of was the impetus, coming up with this $2,400. Now I don't have to come up with the $2,400, so my motivation to start the expense document has waned, but I'm still trying to do it. Then I've got to come up with some follow-up letter to borrowers, ","P1-N400F71":"under the guise of asking them how everything is with their purchase or refinance, have you gotten your escrows back, any problems with the lender. I want to do that and then sort of an oh, by the way, I also practice estate planning and probate, if you need any help in this area, I'd be more than happy ","P1-N400F72":"to help you out. So I've got to come up with that follow-up letter. What I probably should do is just come up with something and go with it, and then just sort of adjust it as I go alone. I can't hurt myself in any way by doing it.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:29:07]
CLIENT: Because they're not giving me business anyways, what are they going to do, not give me business, you know?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, I almost have the motivation. I'm thinking about it, which usually I'm like, I should do that, but I don't think about it, or tell myself, I really should do that, but I know I'm not going to do it. But now I'm actually thinking about it and what I would say in the letter and the system ","P1-N400FF1":"I would put in place to follow up, and I could just use the closing spreadsheet and kind of doing it on a monthly basis, just whip out the letters.
THERAPIST: I'm starting to feel like you're kind of stepping it up in a variety of -
CLIENT: The money is not coming in, but we'll be getting another third from the condo.
THERAPIST: Right, and you're feeling good about that, but also anxious.
CLIENT: Are you proud that you talked over me? Go ahead. I finally got you.
THERAPIST: But you're also feeling anxious and worried that things will fall apart, or you particularly won't follow through on what you need to do. [00:30:15]
CLIENT: And E&G is back to not -
THERAPIST: That worries you because you might take on some more, that you have been.
CLIENT: And E&G is still, you know, we haven't gotten the members and they yelled at us apparently, on Thursday at the weekly meeting. The ambassador came in and was a prick. Obviously, Patricia didn't say anything to me about it on Friday night, but you know, here I am, and I just probably got one ","P1-N4010F1":"of the best connections I've gotten in years, from E&G. Imagine what I could do if the chapter actually started performing, but if they pull the chapter that would really suck. But I think they want another chapter in Essex, so they might I don't know what they're going to do. They could have pulled ","P1-N4010F2":"it by now and they didn't.
THERAPIST: What is your ownership at?
CLIENT: Fifteen or sixteen. The only advice they give you is to invite people, invite, invite, invite. Our assistant direct, who I like, Luke, he ran our visitor day and he'd come in every week, and everybody is supposed to write 40 letters and he wrote 80. Every day he's sending out an e-mail, I've ","P1-N401131":"got this person confirmed, I've got this person, so he had like over eight people confirmed. He had no visitors show up on visitor day, which I think a lot of people lost faith in Luke, but to me it shows more of how difficult it is to get people in there.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:31:55]
CLIENT: I think that E&G is successful now, because people are seeking out E&G, where E&G used to seek out people. So that shift, you know the people that aren't seeking it out, really, I don't know (sighs) I don't know. But anyway, Luke's wife, used to be our assistant director. She's Mrs. E&G, a ","P1-N401171":"super networker, president of some women's networking association, just a ball of energy, really nice. She's a foster parent to thousands of children, does missions around the world, and they're good people. She was arrested two weeks ago at a cemetery, with two of her children, in a large white van, ","P1-N401172":"removing potted plants and flowers.
THERAPIST: From...? [00:32:56]
CLIENT: The cemeteries, from graves. I mean, it's the act, in and of itself is petty, going and picking up a flower and I don't know, reselling them? I don't know what they're doing, but the fact that it's like a cemetery, and that people are going and putting them there for their loved ones. Apparently ","P1-N4011B1":"on the news, they had this one guy who was like well, we go and we put the flowers on my wife's grave, and then we come back three days later or plants, whatever, and we take them, and then we plant them in our garden or whatever, so we went back and the flowers weren't there. I don't know, so it's ","P1-N4011B2":"just completely out of character, theft in and of itself, but a cemetery? Am I overreacting in his despicable that is? I have a feeling they're going to make an example of her, because it was a cemetery. It's like up there it's big news. I didn't hear about it until like yesterday.
THERAPIST: Wow. [00:34:00]
CLIENT: I guess Luke, in a president's meeting, where all the presidents get together, just basically said, we're not talking about it. I feel bad. Was he involved in the operation? I don't know.
THERAPIST: Right. Wow.
CLIENT: It's a crazy world.
THERAPIST: Hmm?
CLIENT: It's a crazy world.
THERAPIST: It sure is.
CLIENT: Nothing ever makes sense. You know I always say that you know, I got an e-mail from my client that the woman we're trying to get the lien on was certifiable. And I told her if people weren't crazy then I wouldn't have a job. It's the same thing with you. This woman is crazy though, I read ","P1-N4012B1":"the e-mail she sent. Another one of these PTSD folks, or the claim of PTSD. I don't know, I just (sighs). Is that common for someone with a mental illness, to throw it around like that, as an excuse for their behavior? I mean isn't the isn't it more likely that they don't recognize they have it ","P1-N4012B2":"or they don't... You know, it's like I don't go and say well, I'm depressed and I have motivational issues and that's why I haven't worked on your file. I occasionally say, I had some personal things come up or personal issues or health issues, but you know. [00:35:35]
THERAPIST: I imagine it can cut both ways. Sometimes people just use it.
CLIENT: It makes me think they don't have. I've seen the same type of personality as the crazy at the condo, where it's just completely irrational babble, and that's just one more thing they irrationally babble about, you know they're like making up this world. I'm not saying they don't have a mental illness.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But that they're creating all these problems in their life that really aren't there, and that's what this woman was she was complaining about having finished the job, and she said she had to vacuum up dust in one of the corners. But she starts out with I have PTSD. I feel bad if she does. ","P1-N401331":"I feel bad just in general, but clearly, she's whacko.
THERAPIST: There's something going on, yeah. [00:36:38]
CLIENT: And it's hard for me, because the clients don't have I mean, I probably wasn't sympathetic in the past, but now I find myself being at least sympathetic towards it. I kind of get a little ticked at my clients when they dismiss it, they have no compassion or sympathy. I don't know. It doesn't ","P1-N401371":"mean I'm going to not squash her like a grape, but you know, I feel bad for these people. And I feel bad for my clients because they have to deal with them, but at some point, then I'd have to start feeling bad for Jess and I don't want to do that.
THERAPIST: Does Jess have a mental illness?
CLIENT: No, I do.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: She had to deal with me.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:37:42]
CLIENT: But then there's the whole theory that the reason I had a mental illness is because I had to be with her.
THERAPIST: You seem to be feeling less ill.
CLIENT: Yeah. I seemed like I was there and then I fell off the cliff, and now I've, you know... So I don't know, I mean maybe it was just anxiety about Marcia in general, which probably still hasn't gone away, or at least... I don't know. I've gotten more comfortable. [00:38:43]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [00:40:28]
CLIENT: My apartment is pretty cool.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I've got this fan that blows the cold air into the other rooms. I'm thinking about getting a second one. I don't use the TV room that much anymore. I used to have my computer there, and it's too much. I'd be like sitting on the ground and I tighten up, and I'd watch TV. Now I work in the kitchen, ","P1-N401511":"now that my kitchen is clean and the table is clean. It also encourages me to keep it clean. So, I really, with the kids was the first time I was in there, and they didn't even notice because the cable is unplugged, because the cord comes across the floor, so it hasn't been plugged in, in days. Ian ","P1-N401512":"didn't even ask to watch TV, so. I'm a sweater, Marcia notices I'm a sweater. She said, "Why don't you wear shorts?" I like jeans. At least it doesn't bother her now, I'm sure at some point it will but at least now it doesn't. I've even got her saying oy vey. I don't think they have Jews in Brockton, ","P1-N401513":"which you know, so close to Kaylee, you would think that you know. There was something, maybe it was I can't remember, there was some Yiddish phrase that's very common, that she didn't know was Yiddish. [00:42:43]
THERAPIST: Yeah, you've been doing workouts, yeah.
CLIENT: That's obviously much better exercise than riding my bike, but the addition of riding my bike. So, I've just got to get into it. And they're different muscles, so I think it's beneficial in that way.
THERAPIST: Good. [00:43:50]
CLIENT: Or different parts of the muscles. We've got to stop.
THERAPIST: See you on Friday.
CLIENT: You know, Friday, an attorney wants me to record something in land court Friday morning, and I'm thinking that if I get there at ten, it's the last day of the month on a Friday, that it's going to cost me time there, and I may want to get there at like eight-thirty. It's probably worth it for ","P1-N4015F1":"me to get there at eight-thirty.
THERAPIST: Okay. Do you want to meet on Thursday?
CLIENT: Yeah. Do you have something on Thursday?
THERAPIST: Nine-fifteen.
CLIENT: Sounds good.
THERAPIST: Good.