TITLE: Client "J", Session May 10, 2013: Client talks about negotiating shared custody with his spouse, and the woman he is dating.
DESCRIPTION: Client talks about negotiating shared custody with his spouse, and the woman he is dating.
CLIENT: Forgot to eat my Hekla.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: On Tuesday they were out of Heklas.
THERAPIST: My gosh.
CLIENT: (inaudible) which was – a lot of things that go wrong in life – that was the most disappointing. Because I used to like the maple-oatmeal scone, but once you have the Hekla –
THERAPIST: Really.
CLIENT: Dry and – the scone is.
THERAPIST: What is the Hekla?
CLIENT: I thought we discussed this. It's a mess. People put their feet right there. So, it's an upside-down cinnamon roll with icing to represent the Hekla volcano.
THERAPIST: You could use the tray for a trashcan.
CLIENT: I could, yeah. It's messy. The next time I'll do that. But you have someone come and vacuum, right?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: In here?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay. That was the worst part about Buddy dying, was that when I dropped the (inaudible), to pick it up. Which I didn't do for a while. Now, I guess I have to clean (inaudible). So, I met with Jess to go over our separation agreement and you know, she's just reacted very negatively, surprisingly ","P1-N400271":"– to me using a lawyer, do what the lawyers propose. And I tried to tell her that. You know I haven't talked to the lawyer about what I want, you know. So, she basically just set a structure. She had to put something in there. Dates, times, whatever – so she did.
THERAPIST: Sort of standard stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah. So Jess starts out the meeting in tears. She, ‘I'm really anxious.' She's like, ‘are you anxious?' I'm like, ‘No,' like I have this big smile on my face. So I finally got it to sink in with her that this isn't going to be very contentious. This is just, you know, sort ","P1-N4002B1":"of the default. We're going to fill in the blanks here about what we want but that's going to be the (cross talk) (unclear). [00:02:48]
CLIENT: – we can't reach an agreement –
THERAPIST: Each of you can have some leverage and a place to go back to if she wants something (unclear) or if you want something (unclear) her, you can go back to the agreement.
CLIENT: Right. Because she was pretty adamant about keeping a mediation clause which I didn't care about. My lawyer doesn't like, though she's a mediator.
THERAPIST: What does that clause mean?
CLIENT: That means that instead of going to court to solve any of the problems around the agreement, you go to mediation. Which I kind of agree with, you know? My lawyer's perspective is that you're giving up something that mediation should be by consent of both parties. And I'm a believer, I volunteered ","P1-N400351":"the mediator. I mean, the mediation. I believe in mediation and the last thing I want to do is go into fucking probate court. I mean I go in there for the registry and just to get files from the probate court and it's like fucking Kafka, you know? You're just waiting for like the court officer to come ","P1-N400352":"haul you away and never be seen again. That's the case, it's got more light than you would think in a Kafka novel, but –
THERAPIST: Otherwise, pretty much the same.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I'm surprised there are not big stacks of paper everywhere. That and the light. So, I was able to impress upon her that this isn't contentious that – I just want – there's an incentive to not come to disagreements because it costs us money to go to mediator court, whatever. ","P1-N400391":"So there's that in the agreement and it's easier to say, well okay, this is what a separation agreement says, we go to a mediator, that's what they're going to say we should follow, you know. Whereas if it's something like Lucille sleeping over, the mediator's not going to look so much at the agreement ","P1-N400392":"as to what our intent was and if the mediator doesn't feel that Lucille's ready, then you know, that's (inaudible). So, you know, I think her concerns were pretty easy to solve. The question is, is she wants the initial sort of pre, the phasing in period, she calls it. She wants to lay it out and I'm ","P1-N400393":"like the other stuff, which I see as more of a long term thing to rely on, but I don't want to put specifics in there. Like she proposed kindergarten, I think for sleep overs. She'll be ready in a couple of weeks.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I mean, I spent the whole morning and early afternoon with her on Sunday and she cried a little bit in the beginning. I played, "This Old Man," saying Lucille came rolling home and she started laughing and she didn't cry the rest of the day. So she gets excited to go in my car and go to my apartment ","P1-N4003D1":"and when we picked up Ian the other day she cried but that happens. Jess had actually gone from the front to my car and didn't see her. Sometimes I don't think she hears that Jess is going somewhere, but the meeting went well. I thought we were going to hammer this thing out and we didn't talk about ","P1-N4003D2":"this stuff at all. I wanted to go line by line through the agreement. I thought that's what we were doing. I explained to her, I said, you know, I can't focus on this shit. I can't read the agreement. I can't – I just, I can't you know, and that's why I need a lawyer. She gave me a print out of ","P1-N4003D3":"it and I'm like, I'm not going to read this.
THERAPIST: I thought you did.
CLIENT: I can't, I can't, I can't bring myself to deal with it, focus. The Adderall's not working.
THERAPIST: You mean it's too upsetting?
CLIENT: It's always been one of my issues I think the Adderall has lessened, but I can't explain. I think there's certain things I want to do and I really don't have a valid – you know, like buying pot from Mosby for Jess, you know. She gives me the money so what's the big deal. But for some reason ","P1-N400471":"I just don't want to do it. Making phone calls – I don't want to do it. You know. I do it when I have to. But – I don't have the experience to really to put one of these agreements together. So I need a lawyer. And when I have a lawyer, I might as well make it work.
THERAPIST: Laughs.
CLIENT: Not in an -
THERAPIST: There's nothing wrong with having a lawyer in an –
CLIENT: – adversarial –
THERAPIST: – the way you're doing it now.
CLIENT: – manner.
THERAPIST: No, if it works better and it works better for you, that's great.
CLIENT: Well, she just guilts me, you know, if I'm not reading the pamphlet and not doing this and like I don't care, I don't care about our kids, I'm not going to learn about parenting, whatever it is. Shared custody, whatever. What's to learn? You get the kids sometimes, I get the kids sometimes. ","P1-N400571":"I don't think how we do it is really going to affect whether Lucille is a mass murderer or (unclear). (inaudible). But – at least not when she's older when skill matters.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
CLIENT: If she's got any of my genes, she ain't (inaudible). But so, you know, I think this is – I think the way we're doing it is just ‘I've got something to do, I don't have anything to do,' or, you know. So – And she says that most people don't follow a parenting plan anyways. So ","P1-N4005B1":"it went well. Marcia was fired. You know I told you –
THERAPIST: You mean they really fired her?
CLIENT: Kerry fired her.
THERAPIST: What do they do (unclear).
CLIENT: Dog walking. And obviously I called her and she was very upset. I don't know how to deal with these situations, really, because it's like you want to do something but the reality is, you can't. She had a rough weekend. We were supposed to go out Tuesday night.
THERAPIST: I think, generally, your response when you don't like something, is – ‘well, you know, you just can't do anything, so why even bother trying.'
CLIENT: (Laughing) I tried.
THERAPIST: That's kind of what you said about the agreement. You're like you try to give me all the answers about why you can't read the agreement, which they're all valid reasons –
CLIENT: There's no explanation,
THERAPIST: But not valid enough to –
CLIENT: I'm agreeing with that. There's no valid explanation.
THERAPIST: But then you try to give me like five. You're like, ‘hey, what's the difference anyway?'
CLIENT: I'm a lawyer. I've got to say something.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) No, you just bullshit.
CLIENT: I've got to make an argument.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: Well, that's my quote: "You can't bullshit a bullshitter." (Pause) I'm a bullshitter. I know it. Are you saying I can't bullshit you because you're a bullshitter? Because that's what I'm saying.
THERAPIST: Okay, you clearly don't want to pay attention today. There are probably very good reasons – I mean the things that you're giving – the things you're expressing are so specific –
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't want to do it. All right? Fine.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Fine. I thought I was making that clear, though, you know. I don't want to do it. I just don't know why I don't want to do it. I just don't want to do it.
THERAPIST: Right. So, you're in therapy at the moment and if you wanted to try to look at, or figure out why it is you don't want to do it, this would be a good place to do that. You don't have to do that, it's up to you.
CLIENT: (inaudible).
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: I don't know why, I just –
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's clearly (unclear) too.
CLIENT: Is that abnormal for your patients to not want to talk about something or am I the only one who's –
THERAPIST: It varies. You are on the less motivated, less wanting to work on it end of things, I think. You tend to –
CLIENT: You're saying I have a motivational problem?
CLIENT: You just did, so don't think about some answer that you think is going to be clever and work around it. You said I have a motivational problem. Don't back track. I know I have a motivational problem, so why haven't I noticed it and isn't that what I'm supposed to do, right? I noticed it. I paid ","P1-N400991":"attention to it.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
CLIENT: That's how I picked up on it. Are you flustered?
THERAPIST: You get –
CLIENT: Ah oh, rapid blinking – that's not good.
THERAPIST: – anxious, avoiPhilt and often silly.
CLIENT: That is who I am. Silly. I'm not anxious.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So anyways, it was a rough week for Marcia –
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So we were supposed to –
THERAPIST: Was that her main gig or the –
CLIENT: Well, I mean, she does home health care and she does her own dog walking and babysitting and whatnot, housesitting, you know. And –
THERAPIST: Did she receive like notice?
CLIENT: It was money she needed. I don't know, when I talked to Mosby on Monday, you know, I'm like – is Kerry pissed off? He's like, ‘no. She's you know, at first she was kind of shocked that Jess and I were separated. And then he's like, but you know she was upset with some work-related ","P1-N400B71":"stuff and I wasn't going to pry or anything like that and I was going to tell Marcia Tuesday night when I saw her. This wasn't something I was going to text her or whatever, not on the phone. And we were supposed to meet after the board meeting like at 9:30 and I got the impression on Monday that she ","P1-N400B72":"was not really excited about it, just trying to stay up that late in the evening, that she was going to do it anyway. Then she called me on Tuesday and – or she texted me that she was having a rough night and she wasn't going to meet me, whatever. And then she got fired on Wednesday. And then ","P1-N400B73":"yesterday a good friend of hers, she was supposed to go out of town but then she bailed and a good friend of hers' girlfriend's mom was diagnosed with terminal cancer, so she had to go watch his mom. So she's been in a real, kind of crappy mood. But she was in a much better mood this morning. She got ","P1-N400B74":"called yesterday for a job, call back sort of thing. I was talking to her this morning and someone called her for a home health care kind of overnight thing. She's excited about it. I'm like, overnights – that sucks. (Laughs) So. But that's good, you know. She needs the money. I'm like, shit, ","P1-N400B75":"I've got to pay for everything. She has a surprise party tonight and so this morning I got a really happy message from her. So, yeah. So anyway she was like looking forward to seeing me and hope that I'm ready for an overload of her friends and family. And I said, yes, I can't wait to see you. The question ","P1-N400B76":"is, is whether you're friends and family are ready to meet me.
THERAPIST: So, are you seeing her?
CLIENT: That's tonight.
THERAPIST: She has a surprise party.
CLIENT: Surprise party at 7.
THERAPIST: Oh, for a relative of hers or something?
CLIENT: A friend, I think. Or, I don't know.
THERAPIST: But her friends and family are going to be there?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Have you met her friends?
CLIENT: I've met some of them, yeah. But this is going to be en masse, I guess. So, I've got soccer practice until 6 and the party's far away, so it's like 6 o'clock driving on the (unclear) expressway. Fun, fun, fun. Actually, I would probably take the pike out. She was kind of like, ah you know, I ","P1-N400CB1":"think she kind of wanted to be there for the surprise, so she got the call and I texted, ‘why don't you go to the surprise and I'll meet you at the party?'
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, she was in a better mood today.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I (unclear) go to this thing, I don't know why. It's like – I just started questioning things, you know, and then my friend thought my questioning was stupid and just – it's not really kind of anxiousness as much as it's self-confidence or whatever my problem is. I noticed it, paid ","P1-N400D31":"attention to it. I keep (unclear) it, because I keep noticing it. And I'm sorry about (unclear). [00:18:31]
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: So, yeah, I don't know what to do about that. I don't know if it's going to go away at some point or you know.
CLIENT: Part of it is kind of a lack of trust. And I have no reason to not trust her – zero. Other than she lives with her ex-boyfriend. (Laughs) That probably adds to it, but you know –
THERAPIST: You have not reason to be with her not to trust her.
CLIENT: Yeah, I have no reason not to trust her. I mean every time I think there's something that I should be worried about, you know, it turns out to be – frivolous worry, I don't know the exact word to use, but – I laugh at myself because I can't believe – you know.
CLIENT: So we had a big visitor day yesterday. I had four confirmed visitors – all four showed up. Actually, I had three – four and a maybe and one of them couldn't make it, but I think I'm going to get him to come back because he obviously didn't want to come. And it was a little disappointing ","P1-N400E51":"because people, the guy who's – our director is like, ‘I've got eight people coming," I got four people coming. So you figure half of the people you've got coming, and it really didn't work out to that. We had about 14 visitors, which is about a visitor per person – four of them were mine.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: All four of mine put in applications. Five applications, total.
THERAPIST: Five applications and four of them were your people?
CLIENT: Yeah. All lawyers. It was awesome. This is going to do like wonders for my business.
THERAPIST: Oh great.
CLIENT: Because that's like the one piece I'm missing is referrals from other attorneys. You know, I've got Phil. I've got a little bit of that, but not as you know, title exam here or there, other than the one who sends me a bunch of title exams. I don't really have a booming business in that regard ","P1-N400F11":"and I think this is going to make them go a long way towards that. Because they're all Essex lawyers. So I'm going to meet more lawyers through them.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: And one of them is really cute, but she's married. She used to be a prosecutor. And there probably will be more people putting in applications. There was another lawyer who was thinking about it – she's an immigration attorney. So, initially I was kind of bummed but you know, you can't ","P1-N400F51":"blame people because people confirm and then they don't show up. I'm the type of person who would confirm and then be like, ‘fuck that, I'm not going to a group with a bunch of people I don't know at some stupid thing.' I didn't want to go when I started, you know. But it turned out well.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: Oh, so there's a membership extravaganza, April, May and June. So if you sponsor a member that joins, you get put into this raffle to win a trip. This year is Orlando which fucking sucks. Last year was Vegas. The year before was a cruise. But I'm going to have four members. Actually, I've already ","P1-N400F91":"got one so it will be five that I've sponsored.
THERAPIST: Does your name go in once for each person?
CLIENT: Now if I win the trip, it's a trip for two. I don't even know when it is. Probably can't go. I'll take the money. I'll take Lucille. Go to Disneyworld.
CLIENT: (inaudible) an extended period of time together might be Philgerous. Don't you think? We don't know each other that well, you know. It's not my fault she's obsessed with me, but (inaudible) I've never seen her around her ex-boyfriend. I didn't worry about that until other people worried about ","P1-N401011":"that like you, Paige.
THERAPIST: I worry about that?
CLIENT: Maybe it was Micah.
THERAPIST: You're not really worried about anything. The rest of us sort of stand around and worry about your stuff, but you don't –
CLIENT: But isn't that an improvement?
THERAPIST: I'm glad you're not feeling worried. I think that's good.
CLIENT: You know, because I don't know, that was one of those things I was worried about and the moment we decided to move, I knew that was a good thing. And I really wasn't worried that much as I had been in the past.
THERAPIST: I think –
CLIENT: Like I don't ruminate on this stuff like I used to.
THERAPIST: There are also things –
CLIENT: You're just trying to find problems with me to keep your cash cow going.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) That's like a really good example of what I was just going to say, I think. Which is, you're really good at trying to make this about how other people are worried about stuff that you don't need to worry about. In other words, I'm actually busy and working –
CLIENT: Someone else is going to solve world hunger so I don't have to worry about it, is that what you're saying?
THERAPIST: This interaction between you and I isn't about you worrying about your stuff or about me trying to figure out how to convince you to have more worries so you can keep coming.
CLIENT: So –
THERAPIST: (Laughing)
CLIENT: Whatever. So Jess kind of wanted us to go to a parenting coordinator to help us set up this plan.
THERAPIST: Okay. I didn't know there were such people.
CLIENT: I know. They're all divorced and (unclear) or getting a divorce, or social worker. And I'm like, I don't want to fucking spend the money. I said, you know, the doctor will want us to look at it and if he thinks it doesn't work out with Lucille and Ian's age, or whatever, then you know, I could ","P1-N401251":"care less whether we're actually going to say anything or not, it's just -
THERAPIST: (Unclear). Yeah.
CLIENT: And then she actually got offended in that because you're an advocate for me. And I'm like, well, you show it to your own person, you know. Nothing's stopped you from getting advice, you know. I'm paying you whether you look at it or not, right?
THERAPIST: Are you asked me to look at it?
CLIENT: Hmm?
THERAPIST: Are you asking me to look at it?
CLIENT: (inaudible).
THERAPIST: (Laughing)
CLIENT: They're like words, they really don't mean anything.
THERAPIST: Clearly not.
CLIENT: I mean they have (unclear) meanings so I notice it. I noticed it. Hey, it's there. And I pay attention to it.
THERAPIST: I think you (inaudible).
CLIENT: I am. Next Friday. We've got to stop meeting on Friday.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: My biggest fear of the whole parenting thing is I don't get stuck with the kids more than I want.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's why you didn't want to do this for so long.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm so busy now between work, Frisbee, Marcia, and kids, you know, and Lucille's not even involved in activities yet.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know, I've got soccer, I've got Cub Scouts, you know, what have you. And she doesn't even do anything yet. You know. And Jess wants to put pick-ups and drop-offs, you know. (Pause): [00:28:42 00:28:53]
CLIENT: She looks at everything like, ‘what's super best for the kids,' you know, but she'll make any sacrifice for the kids. She's taking care of them, you know. They're probably better with her most of the time than they are with me, I'm just going to slap them.
THERAPIST: You're just going to explain why it makes sense to do whatever it is that you –
CLIENT: I'm a lawyer, it's my job. Because I, irrespective of whether it's the right side or not, I've got to make an argument. Your job is to advance me along until I notice it. It's been a long week. Go along with you. So –
THERAPIST: Ah, nicely done.
CLIENT: I was wondering if the whole thing with Marcia is because I care. Could that be it?
THERAPIST: The reason that you have these sort of worries sometimes?
CLIENT: Yeah, but especially this week, you know like if you're having like a bad week, you know, and I haven't seen her since Sunday, Sunday morning. So – every day there's been something, like she didn't call me all day or she was sleeping all day Sunday and I didn't know that, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then Tuesday she had a bad night. And I was like, you know, I was going to blow off Frisbee on Monday if she wanted to go out Monday. But she called and (unclear). And then she got fired on Wednesday. You know, a friend's mom dying on Thursday. So –
CLIENT: She's not the type of person who would go to a party and mope, so –
THERAPIST: Is that why maybe you care about her?
CLIENT: Isn't that what I said?
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: I didn't say I'm worried about that, didn't I?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: Good. Because I don't know. I guess, I don't know. And my mom's coming to town, I'll make some effort so they'll meet. I keep wanting to text a picture of her to my mom and say, ‘she's not Jewish, ha, ha.'
CLIENT: I'll do that at some point. (I need to say it to her face). ‘Mom, this is the shiska I've been telling you about.' I don't know. She talks about family and I don't know what she means. She talks about meeting her crazy mom, ‘now I know where you get it from.' So that's (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Her parents aren't from here?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: She says she doesn't have an accent. I say, ‘yeah, you have an accent.' I don't have an accent, right? You don't have an accent. You've probably spent years suppressing it.
THERAPIST: So most of the people I know don't have an accent and the people out in the suburbs that I know have more of an accent. I think so many people come here from other places, because it's cool. Because, like, ‘hey, your accent's real cute.' She goes, ‘I don't have an accent.'
THERAPIST: I think, I'm glad she's proving you wrong, but I think you wonder how she could be interested in you and that's why when stuff comes up you get worried.
CLIENT: She's going to find something wrong. She already knows a bunch of wrong stuff.
THERAPIST: I think that's also why you have what you call a motivation problem here because you feel like the game is really about me pointing things out to shame you and make you feel shittier about yourself and so your response is to like sit back and mock a little.
CLIENT: I didn't (unclear) for that.
THERAPIST: I think you do. (Laughs) I completely agree, but I think you also sort of feel like I'm the teacher with the red pen who's going to mark you all up and –
CLIENT: You do.
THERAPIST: Really? (inaudible).
THERAPIST: But that's the kind of thing you often get into and you get into with Jess too, where like, you're stance is, ‘I don't care, I'll do what I want. I'll have fun and then the other person becomes like the responsible, serious heavy and you know, they're going to chain you, make you feel ","P1-N401951":"bad, blah, blah, blah. Where you kind of set it all up that way or you contribute to setting it up that way and you try to do that to me, too, a lot.
CLIENT: (Unclear) calling you responsible, then?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah, I think that's different. I don't – I'm not hearing that happen in here (inaudible).
THERAPIST: No, I didn't think that was funny. The thing that's related is the feeling crummy about yourself part like this. You know, my job is to make you feel ashamed and then once she really gets to know you better, clearly she won't like (unclear).
CLIENT: Like I told her I was going into see you, my therapist, you know. I told her I was in therapy. I didn't tell her, twice a week. I haven't joked yet that all we talk about is you. Just (inaudible). That kind of freaked me out, you know.
THERAPIST: You mean (unclear) therapy?
CLIENT: Yeah, no, they were talking about me. But the reality is she talks to her friends and mom and all kinds of people about me. No one's talked her out of it yet.
THERAPIST: Yet.
CLIENT: Yeah, I am always kind of surprised, you know, I go through that – she hasn't texted me in three minutes, you know.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: What's going on here?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then there's a "good morning." Like is this woman that desperate?
THERAPIST: That's your only explanation, huh?
CLIENT: Major psychosis. Psychoses?
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Poor judgment of character, bad taste.
CLIENT: That's what my family wanted to know when I introduced them to Jess – ‘what's wrong with her? And why's she with you? Desperate, psychoses. (inaudible).'
CLIENT: I just think there's a small pool of good guys. The good guys lose out, they lose out and they lose out and then these women are sick of the bad guys, you know, so they finally (inaudible). There's not many of them so it's really just probability that's in my favor. Statistics, you know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know.
CLIENT: I guess if I saw her more regularly and you know, it's like we don't sit and chat on the phone for hours, which I'm glad, you know. But, that would probably give me more comfort about the whole thing because then I'd be – texting is still weird to me, you know. I've got to accept that ","P1-N401CB1":"as a means of communication. A client is texting me now which makes me feel I've got to put an auto-response – you know, that is not a secure form.
CLIENT: I mean people wouldn't ask me about their problems on my Facebook page, you know? The phone company makes no effort whatsoever to make sure people don't steal your text. But I'm not going to do that for one client. We gotta go. You going to charge me now? Or –
THERAPIST: Yeah, this week and I was away last week.
CLIENT: I hope it goes through.
THERAPIST: I do too.
CLIENT: Did it bounce last time and we had to do it again on Monday?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I thought maybe, you know? There's some money in there now so – I don't know how much you're going to –
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: (inaudible).
THERAPIST: If I try and (unclear), you know?
CLIENT: Yeah. Have a good one.
THERAPIST: Thank you. You too.
CLIENT: Got any (inaudible)?
THERAPIST: Not here.
CLIENT: You could write a book about me.