TITLE: Client "J", Session May 7, 2013: Client and his spouse are having trouble negotiating their separation agreement in regard to their children. Client also discusses his medication and the woman he is seeing.
DESCRIPTION: Client and his spouse are having trouble negotiating their separation agreement in regard to their children. Client also discusses his medication and the woman he is seeing.
CLIENT: If you reveal something personal about yourself it violates the therapist code of conduct.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: It wasn't that funny.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: What do you call a fake noodle?
THERAPIST: "O"
CLIENT: No. But that was pretty good. It was a five. It's an im-pasta.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: So we started negotiating the separation agreement – Jess and I.
THERAPIST: Why did the chicken cross the road?
CLIENT: Why did the chicken cross the road?
THERAPIST: To get to your house. Knock-knock.
CLIENT: Who's there?
THERAPIST: The chicken.
CLIENT: Oh boy. You know, I'm going to use that.
THERAPIST: I hope so.
CLIENT: Before I was rudely interrupted – so we started negotiating the separation agreement – mostly just the parenting.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And Jess had sent over this really, kind of loosey-goosey, you know, I didn't really know what to think of it. I didn't really read it that closely and one thing that kind of stuck out in my mind is that she assigned years for different things Lucille could do like fly or stay over, different ","P1-N400351":"things like that. You know, I got an attorney so why the fuck am I going to kill myself, I don't know anything about this area of the law. And like there's experience that I just don't have. I could read every book in the world on divorce and it's not going to help me. So my attorney, who's also a mediator, ","P1-N400352":"kind of understands what we're trying to do, didn't like how loose it was and basically kind of struck the whole thing.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: And proposed, you know, something a little different and Jess calls me on the phone and, first of all, I think she's not real excited that I have a lawyer. Which kind of pisses me off. It's like, you know, she looks at it as a mistrusting – like, ‘you're a fucking lawyer, yourself ","P1-N400391":"– would you advise a client? No, just trust your spouse who's drafting the separation agreement and I won't represent you.' No, she's going to tell that person, ‘I need representation.'
THERAPIST: (Unclear) their spouse is a divorce attorney.
CLIENT: Yeah. So it has nothing to do with trust.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It has to do with perspective. You never represent yourself – you know, the lawyer who represents himself has a fool for a client.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: There's no way to remove the emotions which she is clearly doing, just being over-emotional about this. So I didn't like – the looseness wasn't as big a deal to me, but the more I think about it, just kind of how she reacted to me having an attorney – what happens if we don't agree on something?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know, do we really want to spend money and go – you know, she wants a mediation clause. My lawyer, the mediator, doesn't want a mediation clause and I could care less. Because you're not going to go and fight over you know, who's going to get a kid on Thursday night or something like ","P1-N400491":"that. And my lawyer had proposed, every other Christmas, and you know 5 o'clock on Friday to whatever on Saturday, you know. And I said, you know, it's just something that ultimately one day we're going to graduate to a normal scheduling which this is and we don't have to follow it until we decide we ","P1-N400492":"don't want to follow it. I just want something in place that is palatable in case you go fucking crazy. I didn't say that, but that's what I'm worried about. So I'm like, I've been trying to tell her to listen. Take what she has done, act like an attorney and make the changes you think need to be in ","P1-N400493":"there, give me some comments on stuff you don't like. And she was fighting me on that. She's like, let's just get together. So finally, she sent me this long e-mail. I couldn't even read it. It was too long. You know, there's this shared parenting workbook or cookbook or something on the probate court website.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And she's like, ‘oh, you can just read that.' I don't need an attorney, I can just read this booklet, you know. And I'm like, ‘I'm not going to read it. Why? Why do I have to be so involved in the process? Why? I've got a lawyer, you know, and why should I be involved in the process? ","P1-N4004D1":"And so she's like, ‘you should get this book.' And I'm like, ‘listen, I've got a lawyer, you know.' And then as always, she turns it in to somehow I'm not wanting to learn something that's going to help the kids, you know. It's always how I'm fucking the kids, somehow, by not doing something ","P1-N4004D2":"right. You know, I never read anything she gave me because it's – you know. But – I'm really not too stressed out about it. I'll go meet her on Thursday and I've got my lawyer and we'll come to an agreement and whatever, you know? Because I know initially that the whole, my lawyer is like ","P1-N4004D3":"you want to push Lucille as quickly as you can into sleep-overs and coming over and being – which I think she's getting really close for because, you know, I watched her the other day, she cried initially. I put on, "This Old Man," and she didn't cry the rest of the day.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: So with these age things, I don't even remember what they were, but that Jess had in there was like –
THERAPIST: Well ahead of where she is right now.
CLIENT: You know, it's kind of going to be like the airplane thing where there's just going to be something that she doesn't think is going to be proper or correct or safe for them. I'm not going to behave a certain way and she's going to put the kibosh on it. Wasn't it Friday I had a Wine and Cheese, ","P1-N400551":"Saturday I had birthday party and went out with Marcia and so I told Jess, I'm busy both nights, you know, why doesn't Ian sleep over on Sunday, you know, I could take him to school, whatever. And her response was, "no." That he stays up too late when he's with me, you know, blah, blah, blah. And I'm ","P1-N400552":"like, ‘well what time do you want him in bed? I'll get him in bed at –'
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You're just assuming that I'm going to screw the kid up on something that I have every right to take this kid on a Sunday night. You want to go to a judge and tell him my husband doesn't deserve him on a Sunday night because he lets him stay up too late, the judge is going to be like, ‘sir, ","P1-N400591":"what time does he stay up?' What time do you want, judge?' You know?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So that kind of started me getting a little concerned that I want to be a little more protective of this agreement. That happened last week, you know. And then she turns around and I finally get her to agree to let me agree to watch, to have him over Sunday night, and then she gets invited to ","P1-N4005D1":"a barbeque and takes him to the barbeque instead of have him sleep over with me. What's in the best interests of the child? Going to play with his little friend or spending one night on the weekend with his dad? (Whispers) You don't have to answer that. We know the answer. The friend. So you know, a ","P1-N4005D2":"lot of this stuff I'm not pushing back on, you know, and I don't see a reason to push back right now, but the separation agreement is one thing I'm not going to push back on because – it's not that I don't trust her, and it's not that – it's just that, why do I have to go back down the road ","P1-N4005D3":"and redo the whole damn thing? You know, let's just do it like we want it to be in the future and act like we're going to act and –
THERAPIST: Well, you completely don't trust her – in the sense that I don't think you trust her to be fair about any of this.
CLIENT: Because she never has been.
THERAPIST: I'm just saying – yeah.
CLIENT: You know, it's the parenting schedule that she wants to use to control me as opposed to giving you know – the only thing my attorney proposed, you know, every other Christmas, and she was like I want every Christmas, or whatever. Or, wants me to wake up at her house, or whatever, you know, ","P1-N400651":"and my attorney is putting a standard provision in there about Christmas and like well, don't tell me you don't like the provision, go in, put on track changes and tell me how you want it. You know?
CLIENT: And I'm like, if it's not important to me, one day it might be.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: So why not have it in there the way, ultimately, it should be. I don't care. Which make things interesting on Thursday.
THERAPIST: I can imagine you're feeling like you wish you could have brought your own lawyer to disagreements with Jess beginning years ago.
CLIENT: Yeah. I kept thinking I needed a PR, but I really just needed another lawyer, you know. A woman or something. So Tuesday, Marcia and I go out and I posted that on Facebook, whatever, that I was there with her, you know. Like, ‘should I post that?' And she was like, ‘yeah.' You know. ","P1-N400711":"And [Mosby] (ph) saw it and liked it and I'm like, ‘oops, [Mosby] (ph) saw it and he's going to tell Kerry – and she works for Kerry and she didn't want them to know and it was finally like, you know, tired of, you know, so – Wednesday morning, she texted Kerry that she's gone on dates ","P1-N400712":"with me, is dating me, whatever, and Kerry's immediate response was, ‘do you know he's married?' You know. So I was like, ‘oh you know, that's funny.' And she said that she didn't seem too happy, you know. And I said, ‘I'm happy. Are you happy?'
THERAPIST: Kerry didn't seem too happy.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's what Marcia said.
THERAPIST: Marcia said Kerry said.
CLIENT: Yeah, so, ‘I'm happy, are you happy?' And then she went and said something else but never really answered the "happy" question and so I'm like, ‘I asked you a question, you know,' and she's like, ‘I'm happy, but I'm just not sure this thing's all right, or this is right, or ","P1-N400791":"something like that.' And I'm like, ‘are you fucking kidding me?' So I call her up and she just had some like questions, doubts in her mind, really kind of about how long we've been separated and just sort of, you know I told her everything up front she just seemed to be having some questions ","P1-N400792":"that I really kind of figured out over the last week, but one I think she's the most, I don't want to use the word "troubled" but that kind of, she's having trouble grasping is how I left the house. And I keep explaining to her, ‘I didn't leave the house. But we were separated when Lucille was ","P1-N400793":"a baby, so I told her, you know, ‘do you think I'm a bad parent?' Or you know, it's like it had nothing to do with Lucille. Jess's been trying to get rid of me for years. So, it's like, all right, she had to work or whatever so I was like, ‘all right, give me a call later, or whatever,' ","P1-N400794":"and then I was (unclear) like you know, I sent her a text, ‘take your time,' you know, think about it, whatever, just let me know. And it was really weird because you know, I was definitely thinking about it but I wasn't stressed out about it. I kind of – and this is what happens, I get ","P1-N400795":"these things where I'm thinking she has some sort of doubt and then I give myself a reality check and you know, she's completely smitten with me – so it's like there's really no reason for me to –
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And she sends me the text that she's not going to worry about anything and she wants to see me. So it's like – so I went through hours of sort of uncertainty there, but you know, I was like, that really sucked.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And actually I was more just figuring out how I was going to convince her. So that went fine and nothing weird happened. So it was [Harry's] (ph) birthday party. I got there about 2:30 and it was like 7 o'clock and I don't think Marcia just kind of understood that it was like later in the day ","P1-N400811":"and then kind of a night party or whatever and I knew the party wasn't going to go that long so I was planning all that day but she said that we were going to meet – oh, let me back up. So when she came over on Tuesday she brought her dog. And when we come back from the bar, the dog is gone. And ","P1-N400812":"I go downstairs and there's a babysitter down there and I said, ‘have you seen a brown dog?' And of course, they own a brown dog. She was like, ‘no.' And then I think, ‘where the hell could she be?' And I open up the front door and there's a neighbor and she has her on a leash. And ","P1-N400813":"somehow she got outside and was running up and down the sidewalk.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: So Marcia was a little gun shy and didn't bring her on Saturday but she wanted to go see a band at the (unclear) and I'm like, ‘well, it's like a 10-minute walk away, why don't you come hang out at my place and we'll go to (unclear).'
THERAPIST: Is that after [Harry's] (ph)?
CLIENT: It was after [Harry] (ph) and [Harry] (ph) was really pissed off that I was leaving and I was like, ‘you know, [Harry] (ph), I see you all the time – I see this woman twice a week. (Unclear). You don't have a Mosby call at 7 and he was like –
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, anyways, so we ended up, met some friends of hers and saw a band and then we went to the (unclear). I don't know if I mentioned this guy, Ray, is her friend and that's how she kind of got into a lot of these bands. Well, Ray used to date Jess.
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah.
CLIENT: So we went and saw Ray's band for a little bit and it was just about 10 dudes sitting there. Once you've heard one Ray solo, you've heard them all. He's a really good guitar player but you know. We went upstairs and a long story short, it was a very long night and we were trashed and just weird ","P1-N400911":"stuff going on. She started freaking out in the morning about having not seen her dog. She was like, ‘what time is it?' Oh my God, it's 4 o'clock.' You know? I had to go watch the kids like 8.
THERAPIST: On Sunday.
CLIENT: On Sunday, yeah. And there was even one point where it sounded like she was on the phone crying to someone. I think she was just like really stressed out about the dog.
THERAPIST: In the middle of the day?
CLIENT: This was like in the morning, you know, because –
THERAPIST: Not at 4 in the morning.
CLIENT: No, this is more like 6 or 7. And she clearly was anxious about the whole situation.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I don't think she – she brought a bag of – I don't think – so you know, she kept saying, ‘I'll leave." And I'm you know, I'm going to go to sleep and whenever you want to leave, leave.'
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I went with the kids and I got a text from her about 8:30 in the morning on my way home, you know, ‘have fun.' Whatever. So later I sent her a text and Jess finally comes home around 1 o'clock and I hadn't heard back from Marcia and I thought she must be asleep or whatever, we were ","P1-N400A51":"up all night. So I called and left a voice mail. I didn't hear back, text later. I went and took a long nap, like 9 o'clock at night and maybe I called her again at 7, then finally, I kept falling asleep and waking up. I sent her a text at like 1 a.m., worried, you know. Let me know if you're okay. ","P1-N400A52":"So it was like all day long I was like – had no clue what to think. I'm like, ‘did something happen to her?' Did this whole freaking out episode do something? Once again, I'm like, this woman is smitten with me, I can't see – as it turns out she hurt her back or something and took ","P1-N400A53":"a muscle relaxant and slept for like 16 hours.
THERAPIST: Oh, my goodness.
CLIENT: So, you know. Once again I wasn't as stressed out or anxious or –
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I was able to convince myself that it was something like – I didn't think she took a muscle relaxant and was sleeping for 16 hours. I was like, you know, she's probably sick or you know, whatever. I don't know. But – yeah, and it happens frequently that like I send a text and I don't ","P1-N400AD1":"get a response immediately, and I try and put it in some negative way, but then I ultimately remain stupid. But it happens all the time. Like I texted her 30 seconds ago and she hasn't texted me back. What's going on? Is she having sex with her ex-boyfriend that she lives with? I've been pretty good ","P1-N400AD2":"about, you know, I kind of occasionally ask when he's leaving, you know. But I haven't – I was thinking about – you're worried about me being married and you're living with your ex-boyfriend, you know. You can come over to my place. For some reason I can't go over there. But I think she ","P1-N400AD3":"(chuckles) – I have trouble getting out the whole story and she has trouble listening to the whole story, but she kind of knows how crazy I am. I'm not crazy – that's a bad word, right? She knows my past and she just wants to know. But every time I try and like tell her, it sparks questions ","P1-N400AD4":"that give tangents you know, so I can't talk like a fluid – it's hard for me to even think of it in a fluid and chronological order and even what time and day and month and it's all just – I can remember where I was in May because I moved out at the end of May, but everything else is somewhat ","P1-N400AD5":"of a blur to some degree.
CLIENT: I didn't want to ask her to repeat herself, but Marcia said something about meeting her mom. ‘I want you to meet my mom.' My mom's coming to town at the end of the month. I'm not so sure I want my mom – and then there's part of me that says I do, just to let her know how non-Jewish ","P1-N400B11":"she is. Normally, I don't care but I was kind of – didn't like the way she said, ‘oh, it's your life.' It is my life and Marcia has shisksa appeal. I don't know. It's going well. Going broke. Good thing you're not charging me.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don't know how much I owe you so it's hard for me to, you know, I've got like an automatic thing going in there and like Quicken that (unclear) deduct 200 bucks but you never do it, so I don't – and then you know, you blow off different appointments and –
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah?
CLIENT: You cancelled two appointments recently. But I'm not going to make it on the 21st. There was the lockdown. You were afraid of terrorists.
THERAPIST: That's right. (inaudible).
CLIENT: And you were going on vacation.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I don't know how that all plays in because – (unclear) for you to just add them up and say, ‘oh you're going to pay $300.'
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's what I'm going to do.
CLIENT: But, I've even decided to stop taking Klonopin. You know, I'd been taking like half of a half a gram in the morning and Micah was like, ‘why don't you take it at night? You won't be as tired and you'll still have some in your system, so when you take it as needed, or whatever.' It's like ","P1-N400C51":"fuck it, you know. You know anybody that wants to buy some? I've got like a ton of the stuff that I hear is like six bucks a pill or something like that. I would make some good cash so if you know anyone – I'm sure you've got some clients that you could hook up. So – and I kind of pretty ","P1-N400C52":"much told her that I stopped taking the Wellbutrin in the afternoon and so she agreed that I can stop taking it in the afternoon.
THERAPIST: So what are you still –?
CLIENT: She's all hopped up on them, you know, and –
THERAPIST: So you're taking the Lamictal and the stimulant?
CLIENT: I'm taking Prozac. I'm down to 200 mg SR on Wellbutrin and Adderall and I don't even know if she made a mistake in writing the prescription to up me to two whole pills a day or whatever, but that's what the prescription was for –
THERAPIST: You take Adderall?
CLIENT: Yeah. I am. I'm taking 100 at night and 50 in the morning and yeah she's in love with Lamictal. I think she's just so excited that I can tolerate it. She like, ‘when people tolerate it, it works.' I'm like, okay, I guess. But yeah, Marcia said something about Prozac having some – ","P1-N400D11":"can do some bad things and so I didn't want to tell her I was on it. Of course, one of those things is sexual dysfunction.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Which when you throw in a lot of alcohol, some other illicit compounds, and some Prozac, I came this close to having sex. I was pretty wasted. But what can you do? I don't want to go on Viagra.
THERAPIST: I'm a little confused about what you're telling me.
CLIENT: I was impotent. Which I don't know if it's Prozac. My lawyer told me that. I'm going to need Viagra because I'm on Prozac. But I can't say I haven't had this problem before but I haven't had the opportunity to have this problem, so I don't know if it was – what the exact reason was, but ","P1-N400D91":"it was probably a combination of – I don't think each individual thing, in and of itself, was the root cause. I think it was a combination.
THERAPIST: I see. (inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah and some other stuff.
CLIENT: So. The impasta. (Pause) And that doesn't even bother me. Nothing's bothering me, you know? I'll see you at my next break up. I'm broke. I just got a call from the client. So I definitely have a client which I might refer out but I need the business, you know, and it's 2000 bucks. I'm not going ","P1-N400E11":"to say no, you know? If everything that she told me is correct, then I should be able to run on summary judgment You know, I think they're just going for a settlement and she originally hired a lawyer who told her that I wanted a $15,000 retainer and she listed out the different activities she was going ","P1-N400E12":"to engage in at $150 an hour that would add up to this #$15,000 and I told her, I said, ‘you know, how about $100 an hour, I would ask for a $5000 retainer – it will probably be between two and three and if it goes to trial, you can give me another $5000. You know, a half-day trial is not ","P1-N400E13":"pleasant, it sucks, but I deserve to be paid anyways.
CLIENT: I'm way too busy. I'm in way too much pain. I'm working out too much. So I don't ride my bike to Frisbee because I did my homework workout in the afternoon and I rode home from Frisbee last week and my legs were sore the entire ride home and I'm glad I'm working out and I understand that I would ","P1-N400E51":"have some pain from it but I think I'm doing too much, you know, all at once. And then my body –
THERAPIST: How long do you work out?
CLIENT: What's that?
THERAPIST: How long do you work out?
CLIENT: It's about a half hour, 20 minutes, 20 to 30 minutes and the real issue is kind of in my upper body, especially my shoulders, that was my weakness and so I have some pain in my shoulder and nothing really that – there was one night where I slept, I fell asleep on my shoulder funny, and ","P1-N400ED1":"I woke up and I was in a lot of pain and in spasm and I really thought about going to the hospital, but I just had a great workout that day and did a lot more than I had done the previous week and this was the day I worked with the trainer. You know, I'm happy with the results. My stomach is getting ","P1-N400ED2":"a little fatter, but I don't know if you noticed, but I'm getting pretty big. But I'm just seeing a progression in the number of exercises. He uses a deck of cards and the first time I spent like 50 minutes not even getting through the whole deck, you know, and then I made it through the whole deck ","P1-N400ED3":"and I've done it four or five times and the last time was like the best. He upgraded some of the exercises and I did it in like 32 minutes and I didn't substitute any down. The only thing he could maybe say was that the last exercise was like eight (unclear) pushups and I did six, collapsed, and did ","P1-N400ED4":"two more. But it's really going well and the homework I'm doing well. I miss one and not always motivated to – that's why I like the trainer because he pushes me. And I don't do that as much at home, but between that workout and playing Frisbee, I didn't really think about biking here this morning ","P1-N400ED5":"which I probably should have, but – I got errands to run. Yeah, every night is Frisbee, or Marcia or the kids or some social thing. That's two weeks from today. I guess. And I've got to read that fucking e-mail from Jess. I've got to send in the modification stuff. The (unclear) is calling me ","P1-N400ED6":"every day, they really want me to do this thing. But the reason I told Jess there was no chance that it would go through, I think the market's picking up enough that they're going to look and say a foreclosure is going to be the cheapest way because they're going to get all their money back. And that's ","P1-N400ED7":"really the test. They're not obligated to the modification, but they've got to have this test showing that the foreclosure is going to be -
THERAPIST: They're trying to do what's in their own financial interests.
CLIENT: Right and so it's more in the interest of the investors. Because they're just the servicer because the bank doesn't own the mortgages, they just service it and take a buck or whatever range of payment, you know. And it adds up and they also do foreclosures, but ultimately the money belongs to ","P1-N400F11":"the investors. So in a way – what's that?
THERAPIST: Do they (inaudible)?
CLIENT: Well, they work for the bank but that's who they're looking out for. They're independent. There's no commission, they get paid by the bank but they're independent. They're supposed to be. But that didn't happen in the boom. So the bank has to make the analysis. Number one – do you qualify ","P1-N400F51":"for a modification and they've really loosened up the guidelines so it doesn't even matter what your debt to income is and it's really just that financial decision, you know? Is the foreclosure going to cost us more? And I don't know what factors they look at, but that's why I don't think it's going ","P1-N400F52":"to go through, but it does go through. Number one it's got to be a payment that you can afford. Number two there's all kinds of work on the house. There's like $2500 in water, just – it's in my name, the mortgage is in my name. I can't buy a house with that mortgage out there because they're going ","P1-N400F53":"to be like, ‘well, you're getting no income on this property because it's all going to your wife, and you've got this payment.'
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So. She's not going to qualify for a mortgage. And, I don't know.
CLIENT: You know, I imagine that this whole Marcia thing has helped my state of mind.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I've got to order flowers for Mother's Day. I totally forgot about Mother's Day.
CLIENT: Mom, (unclear) mom. I'm stepmom's favorite, so I've got to keep up the – keep that going down.
CLIENT: You know, I did face time with both my mom and dad and with Lucille and Ian and Ian is just a groove but Lucille is just so amazed by the picture of the person that she's talking to that she just holds it there and you know, sometimes she talks a little too softly but they don't care. My dad ","P1-N4010D1":"is just like, if he could hop on a plane right now, he would. And my mom was at a party so all her friends got to see Lucille, you know. Oh, I know what my problem was. I find myself slapping Ian's hands. For instance, I have my phone – they were trying to grab it from me and slapped his hands ","P1-N4010D2":"or Lucille has a toy and he wants to come in and take it from her. Her and I are doing something and, I don't know, it's instinctive to just slap his hands and he doesn't cry or anything like that, you know. I do plenty of things to make him cry. But that's the only – everything else I do is kind ","P1-N4010D3":"of intentional. And I explained to him that there's a law that I'm allowed to poke him and do the kick in the butt and that (unclear) the parent, but children aren't allowed to do that. He hits me back, like kicking me in the butt. You can't do that, it's against the law, you know, chapter 21, U.S. ","P1-N4010D4":"code, section you know – and he's like, ‘well, I know that that section's correct, but the law doesn't say that.'
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: And I explained that – I showed him a good example of how he's too smart for his own good. I said, ‘you know, do you want some cheese with that whine?' And he thought and then he got a big smile on his face, like – ‘you got that, didn't you?' He was like, ‘yeah.' ","P1-N401111":"Too smart. If you were stupid you wouldn't even get it.
THERAPIST: (Laughs). That's good.
CLIENT: No it's not, because he fucking whines, oh my God.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: I've got to do laundry today.
THERAPIST: What time of day do you usually slap his hand?
CLIENT: While I was watching Sunday morning, so it was the morning.
THERAPIST: Had you just taken the Adderall?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I wondered if the Adderall would help, actually, because it sounds like it's impulsivity and difficulty kind of slapping yourself.
CLIENT: So the Adderall should help with that.
THERAPIST: I think so.
CLIENT: I mean I was tired and cranky, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I find myself doing it at other times, too, and you know. My crankiness level is up a little bit more about around then just because of the whining and just I don't think it's because I'm just – I'm not really showing a lot of frustration with a lot of things, so it's not –
THERAPIST: No. I mean overall you've, anyway, this is what you're telling me is that you've been remarkably calm particularly in the face of things that could otherwise flip you out like the negotiation with Jess or the ups and downs of Marcia –
CLIENT: The perceived ups and downs.
THERAPIST: Better put, yeah. Or, to do with money. And –
THERAPIST: – a little more connected with it and I think there's a difference as in how you're doing today.
CLIENT: What about it? Oh.
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound like you were saying that much.
CLIENT: It's weird.
THERAPIST: I think that part of it is that you feel like she'd be crazy about you in any case.
CLIENT: I'm doing what?
THERAPIST: Like part of why it didn't upset you in the way it might have is that she's crazy about you in any case – Marcia.
CLIENT: I think she just wants to kiss, too. Because she keeps saying that, like, ‘I just love kissing you.'
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (inaudible).
CLIENT: Oh yeah, and I finally talked to [Mosby] (ph) yesterday and he says, what's – he called me bitching about something with his dad's estate and things we've done on the house they got pushed out of years ago and he's like, ‘yes, what's going on? You and Marcia are congregating,' (inaudible). ","P1-N401551":"And I was like, ‘is Kerry mad?' And she's like, ‘oh no, she was just kind of shocked at first, it just hadn't set in that Jess and I had split, you know.' And then he tells me that Kerry was upset with Marcia not because of me but because she's caused them to lose a couple of clients and ","P1-N401552":"hasn't been a great worker.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I won't tell her.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: I'm sure they've probably already told her, you know?
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: All right. Tuesday, I keep thinking it's Friday.