TITLE: Client "J", Session January 17, 2013: Client discusses ongoing financial difficulties, and relationships.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses ongoing financial difficulties, and relationships.
CLIENT: You know, it’s the first day back to work after the holidays. You’ve blown all this money on Christmas. The weather sucks.
THERAPIST: Right. The holidays really coming up for a while.
CLIENT: That’s when you’ve got to worry about fucking Valentine’s Day. So I’m dying a slow painful death. Once I got over the bug, where it’s like “Oh, it’s 24 hours.” You know? 15 days later I still have diarrhea.
THERAPIST: No shit?
CLIENT: Lots of shit. That was funny.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was funny. You shouldn’t have to point it out though. Yeah, I know you want credit. My ankle was fucking killing me. [00:01:03]
THERAPIST: You were the one who said [funny thing] (ph) actually.
CLIENT: My ankle, my Crohn’s is still there. I’m feeling the stomach pains. Well, originally I was wondering why my wrist wasn’t healing. I’ve got arthritis in some of my knuckles from the Crohn’s. Crohn’s is an inflammation and very often, in the past after a flare, ","P1-N400191":"I’ve gotten arthritis. That’s why I don’t grow a beard, because I play with it too much and it hurts my hand.
THERAPIST: You know you could look up or I could, somebody (ph) I could ask about this… I have worked with people who have found a strategy called ‘mindful eating’ helpful.
CLIENT: I don’t want to do anything that has ‘mindful’ in the title.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So, you’re looking at me and you’re smiling, but I’ve tried the mindfulness crap and I just can’t focus on that. So like the weather. I don’t even have time to think about the weather. Not time like in time, but there are just other things out there, you know?
THERAPIST: Well, I think the idea with (inaudible at 00:3:16) with the eating is like you just try to (inaudible at 00:03:20) while you’re eating. That’s all.
CLIENT: To what you’re eating. Yeah, I’ve done that before.
THERAPIST: Okay. If you don’t want to do it, you don’t have to do it.
CLIENT: No. I’ll be waiting (inaudible at 00:03:34) I’m going to get drunk and fucking start sucking down chicken wings. I’m trying to avoid the sugar first because that’s an inflammatory and I’ve one off sugar before and I’ve been drinking a lot of soda recently ","P1-N4002B1":"and things I don’t do sugar wise. So I think that’s causing some problems. I know the Prednisone destroyed my immune system because I’ve had cold after cold after cold since.
THERAPIST: Oh, good. That’s great.
CLIENT: You know I started with a financial planner at Edward Jones, just pulling out $100 every month. I don’t have a log in. I’m not going online. I’m not signing up for that. And basically I’m trying to build an emergency fund for the next time I fucking lose my shit. To cover ","P1-N400351":"my expenses. And as I get money here and there, I can put a little extra money in there as well. Something I’m very excited about is a designer just joined the BMI (sp?) group and we meet at the galley in Essex which is this dated, nautical themed fish-fry place on the water. The bar (inaudible at 00:06:29).
THERAPIST: Good luck.
CLIENT: Thank you. I’ve been budgeting or thinking about budgeting in both the business and personally to see where my spending’s going and places I could… For instance, Marcia gave me a TV for Christmas and now she wants me to get cable. She really doesn’t want to come over ","P1-N400451":"because I don’t have a TV and cable. And I asked my landlord a while ago about, “What would it cost me to get a box in my room and basic cable?” And he was like, “$66” or something like that. I still [owe him] (ph) like $5,000 or whatever. And she’s like, “Oh, ","P1-N400452":"that’s not a lot.” Here’s someone whose got no work and can’t pay her rent and all this. And she’s like, “Well, $67. What’s that?” [00:12:40]
THERAPIST: Do you have Wi-Fi?
CLIENT: I do. And yeah, the streaming stuff. But really for me, it’s sports. And for her, it’s Housewives of New Jersey, Beverly Hills, New York, Atlanta. You know all the [places] (ph) they have that. But the reality is, $66 is not a lot of money. I throw that away in scratch tickets I ","P1-N400491":"buy for her. So if I’m smarter about making sure my expenses are covered. I think sometimes when there’s money there I’m just going spend it. I’m going to buy concert tickets. I’m going to buy weed. Going to buy booze. Going to take her out for a nice dinner. I’m ","P1-N400492":"going to spend the money. So I’m trying to find ways to get the money out of my account, when it goes in there and building up cushions outside of my normal accounts. [00:13:45]
THERAPIST: Gotcha (ph).
CLIENT: So I’ve got my financial planner building one cushion. I’ve got the credit card now, which I’m very conscious of utilization now, which is how much you use of your credit line. Right now, I have a Gap card. I’ve got a $200 limit and I owe like $140. So that’s a ","P1-N4004D1":"bad utilization. They want it around 30%. So that’s my goal after I get my office. [00:14:20]
THERAPIST: 5
CLIENT: The 5? The 5C? The 5S?
THERAPIST: Just the straight up 5.
CLIENT: That has a bigger screen?
THERAPIST: Yeah. You want to see?
CLIENT: Yeah. Does the 5S look just like this?
THERAPIST: Yeah. The 5S looks just like that.
CLIENT: That’s not so bad. I think I see people’s Androids and I think those are too big. Galaxies are bigger. I’m not watching fucking General Hospital on my phone. So yeah, just happened to have extra time because of the (inaudible at 00:21:27) storm. I stayed down in Norwood (sp?) ","P1-N4006D1":"and going through that really. And started working on getting my mileage logged and just getting my house in order. I was up in the office yesterday doing the same thing, clearing out the old bank accounts, getting the new bank accounts in order. Sort of putting together the list of people I didn’t ","P1-N4006D2":"send Christmas cards to that I need to reach out to. You know, just that kind of stuff. So it’s just [a difficult, so I felt like crap] (ph).
THERAPIST: Her (ph) sister?
CLIENT: Marcia is.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay.
CLIENT: She’s like super hyper and loud. Tiny little woman. So she asks me how I’m feeling. And I say, “I’m not feeling well.” And I actually started, you know, I had been feeling better but this is when the cold started kicking in. So I’m about to tell her how I’m ","P1-N400791":"starting to feel pretty crappy, and she turns around and just starts talking to someone else. Right after she asks me how I was doing. Didn’t even wait for an answer. Just vrum (sp?). [00:23:53]
THERAPIST: Or at least two of them.
CLIENT: Yeah. Two [inaudible at 00:24:29]. So yeah, I’ve been really fucking upset because I’m sick and my ankles and I barely get around. But on the other hand, I’m feeling…
THERAPIST: Yeah, sounds like your much more on top of some of the financial planning and office stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah, because I feel like I’m moving forward. Last year was not a great year. But I started making money in areas that I had not been making before. So the landlord tent (ph), the condo, I just got another condo guy (ph) collection yesterday. And each of those is like a closing (ph) so… [00:25:09]
THERAPIST: Who’s Flo?
CLIENT: Flo. My step-mom.
THERAPIST: Oh, right.
CLIENT: She [let me report that] (ph). Originally I was like, “Oh, I just give the whole thing to her” but no, I’ve got to catch up on my rent. I bounced $2,000 which she hasn’t fucking cashed those checks yet. I sent them an e-mail. I said, “Listen, you could either re-deposit ","P1-N4008F1":"them or I can give you a fucking bank check.” And I just want to get the money out of my account. And I didn’t get a response to that e-mail. (inaudible at 00:27:28)
THERAPIST: Yeah, [I’ve been to] (ph) an electronic EOB that’s [fed into my billing software] (ph) automatically so I can see it there.
CLIENT: Okay. I know I still owe you a chunk of money.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you know what? I’ll think about it this weekend, where we’re at. I’ll send you an e-mail. [00:29:02]
CLIENT: Okay. I put all my medical bills on the backburner.
THERAPIST: The ones from the hospital?
CLIENT: Yeah. And just various things here and there. Mostly for priority. It’s like, what’s Flo going to do to me, what’s the landlord going to do to me. What’s the hospital going to do to me? You know? They’re not like credit card companies. You know? You might get a ","P1-N4009F1":"collection or whatever and I don’t know what you do, but I’ll take you down…
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:29:48) I was just thinking about the hospital, there are some guys that’ll put you in the hospital but that doesn’t get them anywhere.
CLIENT: Yeah. I tried telling someone there was a Jewish mafia and they didn’t believe me. I said, “What do you think those (inaudible at 00:30:08) Jews are dealing all the diamonds. You think those guys are all above board? Nah (sp?) They’re killing people left and right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:30:19)
CLIENT: (Sneezes)
THERAPIST: Bless you.
CLIENT: Thank you. But yeah, so I got the new client over Christmas. I got the new client yesterday. I’m going to meet a guy I know from tailgating and ultimate, who he and a buddy want to buy some property. I don’t know what’s going to happen (inaudible at 00:30:54). I mean, we may ","P1-N400AB1":"get our charter pulled or whatever, pretty soon. But Eddie and I are on the same page—he’s vice president—that we’ll just go to some other organization. We’re going to keep the group together.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it’s a starter? [They tried] (ph) the wrong key…?
CLIENT: Yes. I got a different key to start it. I’ve got one door lock and I have to use the old key to do that, and I don’t have my remote. And basically, I don’t know if I should e-mail the sales guy or sales manager, but my beef is this. You know, I took a week old car into your ","P1-N400B51":"shop thinking I was going to be driving out a week old car. And I didn’t. I drove out with a car that was not a week old. I couldn’t open the doors with my lock. You know, I can’t lock it. Just with the kids. You know, being in Andover carrying things. To always have to go around the ","P1-N400B52":"snow. Always having to go around to the front door to unlock the lock. You know, it’s much more of a pain in the ass than one would think. [00:35:18]
THERAPIST: They’re in Watertown?
CLIENT: Yeah. On the Automile. Watertown on the Automile. This is my skill…is pumping them up without costing myself if this thing were to go to litigation. So the one mistake my landlords always do, the one mistake my tenants always do is there’s that e-mail at the initial part of, “This ","P1-N400BB1":"isn’t working out.” They always say, “You’ve been a great tenant.” “You’ve been a great landlord.” Well now, what is it? Is this the landlord that never fixed anything or is this the “Great landlord?” [00:37:17]
THERAPIST: There something that’s dangerous with Lamictal. What is it, going up or coming off it?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: One of those things is quite dangerous.
CLIENT: Oh, taking it.
THERAPIST: Starting up.
CLIENT: The rash. Like the rash or something like that. I should tell them shouldn’t I?
THERAPIST: Might not be a bad idea.
CLIENT: I’ll tell Marcia. The other one is fucking crazy. She’s like trying to have sex with Marcia like you wouldn’t believe. I was like, “Whoa. This is just inappropriate.” Of course I’m encouraging it because I’m a guy. Supposed to. Right? You know? I don’t ","P1-N400D31":"think Marcia n was enjoying it. [00:39:49]
THERAPIST: You have a (inaudible at 00:40:12)
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Are you asking if you have PFP (ph)?
CLIENT: No. I just wanted to point that out. I assume this is something that’s normal. Maybe not?
THERAPIST: Um… yeah. The question is, how much, how often, how long does it last? I mean I think to some extent, that’s pretty normal and usual.
CLIENT: I mean it bothers me that I do it at all. I don’t like it.
THERAPIST: How long has it been?
CLIENT: It was October 7th.
THERAPIST: Okay. So…
CLIENT: It’s been two months. Three months. And it just happened the other day.
THERAPIST: Do you startle more easily in general?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Nightmares?
CLIENT: I don’t remember dreams or nightmares or nothing. Rarely. The last one I did, a woman committed suicide. (inaudible at 00:41:22) She was Asian so I though t she was hot.
THERAPIST: This is the last dream you remember having?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When was that?
CLIENT: A couple months ago. Is it weird that I don’t remember dreams? Anymore? I used to, but I don’t. [Really I’m just] (ph) going to wake up and go. I assumed it was the medication. I’m not getting good round (ph) of sleep and I’m going to die a slow painful death.
THERAPIST: (Pause) I don’t know. Ask your prescriber of your medication about your memory thing, but I don’t know. (Pause) Are you also taking any kinds (inaudible at 00:42:47)? Sometimes those will actually make your (inaudible 00:42:30) more vivid.
CLIENT: I’m taking Prozac and Lovitran (sp?).
THERAPIST: That’s great. Yeah. So I don’t know what the combination of that that’ll make you (inaudible 00:42:41).
CLIENT: Now that we’re speaking about the anti-depressant and the Wellbutrin and the reason I’m taking the Wellbutrin is to counteract the side effects of Prozac, which was why they thought it was weird I was having sexual dysfunction. I think you said and Doctor Province (sp?) said that ","P1-N401011":"it was performance (ph) anxiety. And I think it was because I’m not really having that issue anymore. But now I’ve got this great prescription for Viagra. Of course when I take a Viagra we don’t have sex.
THERAPIST: That was also happening when you and Marcia were just first getting together. (inaudible 00:43:30)
CLIENT: That’s why I think (inaudible at 00:43:31). Which is good because she was getting frustrated. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Good. Monday nights?
CLIENT: Well, we’re doing the Monday nights and she’s sleeping over Saturday. The sleepovers have gone well.
THERAPIST: Good. That’s great.
CLIENT: I took them to a party and Marcia was there and Lucille hit it off with her. I was really nervous because Lucille like ran by her and Marcia kind of scratched her head. And I was like, “Oh my God. Is this too quick? Is this, you know?” And they ended up playing tickle monster. And ","P1-N401111":"Ian was like, “Could you ask your friend Marcia to not tickle me because her nails scratch me.” And I’m thinking, “Well, (inaudible at 00:45:16) it’s the same problem I have.”
THERAPIST: Oh that’s great.
CLIENT: That went well. She’s good with kids.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Ian had met her before at the golf thing, the miniature golf thing.
CLIENT: Yeah. Saw and met her. So that went well. I’m trying to work out a dinner. A Monday night dinner. I didn’t have the kids last night (ph) because I was sick. They had them over the weekend. They have not played with Alice and Dorothy. Ian goes down there and I can’t get him ","P1-N4011B1":"to say I’m inviting them up. So they keep pushing back the time he can come down. I text them. Nothing. C’est la vie. I’m thinking that it’s either me or (inaudible at 00:46:24) time or that they think that Dorothy misbehaves when she’s around Ian which I think (inaudible ","P1-N4011B2":"at 00:46:30). They did take Quinn (inaudible at 00:46:35).
THERAPIST: Okay. How old is Alice?
CLIENT: He’s now five, but this like a year ago. (inaudible at 00:46:48)