TITLE: Client "K", Session February 27, 2014: Client discusses feeling anxious and overwhelmed in terms of their work environment.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses feeling anxious and overwhelmed in terms of their work environment.
THERAPIST: If you like, I have two cancellations actually tomorrow.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: One at 9:15 and one at 4:30.
CLIENT: (pause) I can come in at 9:15.
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause) [That’s all I’ve got].
CLIENT: Okay. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: They seemed appreciative. (pause) I don’t know. I guess in a sense I don’t really want to like, I don’t know, like analyze it or think about it too much. I just kind of like I’m glad it’s kind of over.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I don’t know.
THERAPIST: You can put it behind you.
CLIENT: Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: Something that took a lot of effort or time.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don’t know. But then like I don’t know. The feeling I’m just going home or kind of, I don’t know, going to do something else, was very I don’t know. Just like [very provoking] or like I didn’t want, you know, just kind of feeling stuck. I didn’t ","P1-N4003D1":"really want or know what to do or what I wanted. I don’t know. (pause) So yeah, I mean (long pause)
THERAPIST: I guess part of what was tough was knowing you wanted a break in light of how taxing it was to have hosted [those folks from the other lab]. And yet I gather you’re feeling pretty overwhelmed by kind of having a wide open space of being able to do what you wanted. (pause)
CLIENT: Right. I don’t know. Like something about like having (inaudible at 00:09:18). I think I’ve said this before. I talked to Vicki last night and kind of said some of the things. I always feel like I need a break or I need time or I need to recover. But like, I don’t know if I ","P1-N400451":"had like a day off or I had like I feel like it would just I wouldn’t know what to do or I feel like I would do nothing kind of I don’t know.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. (long pause)
CLIENT: (pause) Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: And then like once it’s done, once the day is over, I need some kind of, I don’t know, break or release [but I need it to be more than] the usual things. Or even like seeing people, I don’t know, or watching TV or whatever or working out. It’s not I don’t know.
THERAPIST: You mean like there’s a way you’re feeling kind of distraught from the day, that those things don’t do enough to kind of soothe?
CLIENT: (pause) Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don’t know. Empty or kind of like I don’t know. Kind of watching something. (long pause)
THERAPIST: [What’s sort of going through my kind] is one aspect of this. I get it that dealing with these people at the lab was not nearly as bad as dealing with Lolo a few weeks ago.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Although it still sounds like you’re not in a great place with it. The two things I’m thinking of are, you know, feeling crummy as you were leaving yesterday and sad and sort of not wanting to talk about or get into it here, which is fine. I just assume that’s because you ","P1-N400791":"anticipate, or at least partly because you anticipate that, you know, if we talk about it you’re going to feel dragged back into it and it’s going to be upsetting and kind of throw you off or something like that.
CLIENT: I don’t know. (long pause) I guess (pause) I think the whole time with them, teaching them I mean, the feeling is that like when I’m giving them this, I don’t know, knowledge or whatever, that it’s not like complete or it’s not enough.
THERAPIST: How can you make up for it?
CLIENT: Right. (pause) So like I don’t think I’m even fully aware. I’m just kind of in this zone of quickly thinking what’s next, what’s next. It’s not really like registering.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess this sort of feels rather catastrophic. (pause)
CLIENT: Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don’t know. (long pause) I guess I just take it too personally or something and, I don’t know, I guess I feel like I’m kind of giving them, I don’t know, something I understand and something that’s mine. So it’s just hard kind of not I don’t know.
THERAPIST: Like you’re giving it away, you mean?
CLIENT: Right. (pause) Right. Like I made something and I gave it to them but it’s not complete and it’s not they’re supposed to, you know, take that and use it. I don’t know. It’s like I’m responsible or worried. I don’t know.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. (pause) Like you give them a boat or something that’s full of holes.
CLIENT: Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: I guess -
CLIENT: Go ahead.
THERAPIST: I was going to say I guess, you know, part of what’s difficult is also that well, I’m thinking that on one side it seems to me you’re actually describing to me your feelings of what happened and then it’s really quite clear. Though I imagine you’re also upset ","P1-N400B11":"wishing, you know, you could’ve done it better or there was some way to fix how bad you did it or make up for it or something like that. (pause)
CLIENT: Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: And that’s hard to bear.
CLIENT: (pause) Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: I don’t know. And not be so affected by I don’t know. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah and [try not to worry about] this kind of thing and not feel like you can just leave work and put it down and not have to think about it or [re-learn to focus] on what you want to do next. (pause)
CLIENT: Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Does anxiety also hit you at the end of sessions here, at times?
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah, and just kind of feeling I don’t know what to do.
THERAPIST: Kind of like you walk out of here and feel like a little disoriented?
CLIENT: Right, or when I’m supposed to (inaudible at 00:36:22) from what we discussed.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yeah, like “what next?”
THERAPIST: I guess it feels like something is missing?
CLIENT: (pause) Right.
THERAPIST: [So you are clear] that you have something you can hold onto like you’re oriented.
CLIENT: Right. (pause)
THERAPIST: Unfortunately we have to stop for now. Sorry again for -
CLIENT: No, it’s okay.
THERAPIST: I will see you tomorrow morning.