TITLE: Client "K", Session February 24, 2014: Client discusses their need to be more trusting of others in order to cope with current issues.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses their need to be more trusting of others in order to cope with current issues.
CLIENT: Not much is going on. (long pause) I guess yeah, I mean I was I don’t know. I was productive this weekend. I saw a few friends, nothing too substantial, just for dinner or whatever.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: It was kind of good to, I don’t know, to kind of be myself for a little bit just because (pause) the previous weekend I was away interviewing.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And then all week I’m kind of, I don’t know, overwhelmed. So it was just kind of nice to slow down. (long pause)
THERAPIST: You were able to catch your breath a little.
CLIENT: Right. (pause) Right. [It was good]. (inaudible at 00:03:46) I don’t know, substain (pause). I don’t know. [Because he hasn’t] (pause). I don’t know. I guess I was just worried more about myself than our just kind of (pause) I don’t know. I guess not, you ","P1-N400211":"know, consume thoughts of what other people are thinking.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: And they I don’t know.
THERAPIST: That’s a welcome difference, I imagine.
CLIENT: Right. But I guess I still have just I don’t know. (pause) I’m a little worried about it.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I don’t know. (long pause)
THERAPIST: By what you’re saying, it has to do with feeling (pause). Like anticipating feeling more kind of crowded in [or intruded on], whether sort of being back to work this week after the [most days] or anticipating the two people coming, even if at least they’re better or they’ll ","P1-N400391":"be kind of probably easier to host than Lolo was. And I wonder if you those are also comments about me here where you feel sort of again, Monday a little crowded or concerned what I’m going to think. (long pause)
CLIENT: Not really. I wish I would’ve I don’t know. I wish I had more like, I don’t know, concrete like, you know, things that are bothering me. But I don’t know. (pause) I don’t know. I feel like it’s just like a bunch of little stuff or like [or just ","P1-N4003D1":"one] or just kind of [wanting to distance myself, I don’t know, from people]. But not in the way of like, I don’t want to get into things or talk about things.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: (pause) I don’t know. (pause) So, I mean (pause)
THERAPIST: It’s more like a kind of closeness that you want to manage or sort of be careful about, but that doesn’t really apply to everything. It’s more like Marlowe, Paul and (pause). And sort of also, I guess, kind of keeping your eye here on the ball in terms of like really ","P1-N400491":"staying focused on what’s bothering you? (pause)
CLIENT: Right. (pause) I don’t know. (long pause) I don’t know. With them I don’t know. I mean, I just feel like I don’t have any control over, I don’t know, my feelings.
THERAPIST: When you refer to like the uneasy feeling, I assume you were referring partly to something you’re actually feeling here?
CLIENT: (long pause) I feel it a little bit now, but now I feel kind of outside like -
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: But (pause) a little anxious or (inaudible at 00:15:48) but I’m really not sure what’s bothering me.
CLIENT: It’s hard for me to be okay with what I’m doing.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. (long pause)
CLIENT: I mean, I guess I always just feel like I should be doing something to, I don’t know, manage the anxiety [better and like address it], but I don’t know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:18:10)
CLIENT: No, go ahead.
THERAPIST: (pause) I wonder if there’s something about the like consistency or stability of things with me or the -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: sort of the sense that you will have some space and I’m likely to pay attention to (pause) like what’s going on with you or kind of your side of things.
CLIENT: (long pause) [And others]. (long pause) I don’t know. (long pause)
THERAPIST: I guess it’s also very confusing (pause) in some ways why those things get to you as much as they do. I mean, in other words, not so much. I mean, my sense is like with Paul, for example. It can be pretty clear he’s being difficult (chuckles) in some ways. But I guess in other ","P1-N400871":"ways, [with him or the other stuff], it doesn’t seem it should be difficult, but it’s hard to know why because [it felt that it is]. Something like that? (pause)
CLIENT: I think I know why. It’s just I feel guilty about it or I feel I should be a better friend or I feel I don’t know. I don’t know. I feel like I should be more social or something, so I try. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Did you say distrust?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm. And dislike. (long pause)
CLIENT: (pause) Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: [I heard you say something] -
CLIENT: [Yeah, between] (long pause) I don’t know. I don’t really know what I want other than to kind of, I don’t know, feel better in order to I don’t know. Feel more in control or sincere or I don’t know. (long pause)
THERAPIST: I imagine this comes up in a way between you and me when you want like suggestions or [some sort of help] with being [fair-skinned] or more resilient to this kind of stuff, in that a part of you feels like, you know, it’s your fault, that’s not what you’re supposed to want ","P1-N400AB1":"or how you’re supposed to go about this. But then another part of you I could imagine feels at the same time kind of wary of or critical of me or just not giving that to you which you feel would be really helpful. (long pause)
CLIENT: I don’t know. I mean (pause) I guess I view it as I’m supposed to be, I don’t know, learning to kind of deal with, I don’t know, these kinds of situations but (pause) I don’t know. I feel like (pause)
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: (long pause) I don’t know. I don’t think (pause) I’m trying to keep my distance or kind of push you away. I just I don’t know. I want help with this and I don’t know how else to describe it. (long pause)
THERAPIST: I guess this creates a sort impasse or at least what feels like an impasse between you and me. (long pause)
CLIENT: I’m not sure. (long pause)
THERAPIST: I have two thoughts, the first of which is (pause) sort of that would involve either seeing this as or recreating this as just the sort of thing that you don’t want.
CLIENT: (pause) Right. I don’t know. It also doesn’t feel the same.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: (pause) I don’t know. (pause) Maybe there’s more trust or less, I don’t know, judgment.
THERAPIST: Well, I imagine there being more trust and less judgment kind of cuts both ways. Like on one hand, it’s good and [needs you to be] a little more open talking about, among other things, like what goes on between you and me and what that’s like for you. At the same time, I think ","P1-N400D31":"it exposes you to more of the risks of sort of feeling thin-skinned or having reactions you’re not happy to be having like being angry or feeling at fault. (pause)
CLIENT: I don’t know. (long pause)
THERAPIST: So I guess this is just sort of a more general comment. I’m not sure if this is clear to you or not, but that’s often how analysis works is to find some version or iteration of the problem which may be different in some ways from what you have trouble with outside, in what’s ","P1-N400D91":"going on between you and me where we can look at it and try to sort it out or understand it more clearly.
CLIENT: [Right]. (pause)
THERAPIST: That’s not to say the problem is exactly the same or -
CLIENT: (pause) (inaudible at 00:44:17) (pause) Alright. (pause)
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. (pause) [So I’ll see you on] Thursday?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause) [Is that your coffee?] (pause) [See you, Kay].