TITLE: Client "K", Session March 27, 2014: Client discusses her work settings and how she feels bad that she takes her issues out on colleagues. Client discusses trying to be more herself.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses her work settings and how she feels bad that she takes her issues out on colleagues. Client discusses trying to be more herself.
CLIENT: I guess, so in our department or whatever, or in the lab, there’s this [inaudible at 00:01:24] too much samples for processing and she’s really nice and acts, yes. Anyway and so she had a grant coming up or something and she needed samples processed right away so I sent kind of out ","P1-N4000C1":"of normal submission and that’s fine. The company kind of, especially now since we’re the same company notices (ph), that they do, I don’t know, they gave me they said oh it might take longer because it was only six samples instead of usually we send 100 or something. All right, ","P1-N4000C2":"whatever, that’s fine. [00:02:19]
THERAPIST: Right, because that would mess everything up I would think.
CLIENT: Right. And so yesterday I got the data back and I was just infuriated because I mean the first thing we noticed is everything was the same and [it’s all] (ph) on the data. But then I go and look at it and asked why is this crazy, I don’t know it was just a clump right in the middle. [00:03:06]
THERAPIST: And so that’s on her, right? She could put this stuff on her own chip?
CLIENT: Right, on the company, yes.
THERAPIST: Oh it’s on the company, not on Post-doc. Okay.
CLIENT: Right, on the company. And I have no idea why they did it or I don’t know because we do send both, human and mouse, but I don’t know. And I was so, I don’t know, just all this trouble that comes with this company. And I feel like whenever something goes wrong with them or something, ","P1-N4001A1":"I’m always the dispatcher of bad news with all, with any samples. [Laughs] And they say well you (ph) never in particular this is [inaudible at 00:04:01] is the post-doc who takes samples and she spends so much time. She spends a lot of face time with me making sure that I treat her samples ","P1-N4001A2":"well because I understand and she’s nice enough and explains what they are. But it’s because she, because it’s just a lot of work to take these samples so I understand her input. [00:04:25]
THERAPIST: So you double-checked that you put mouse?
CLIENT: Yes, instead of human run this under mouse array, [inaudible at 00:07:32] right. But I guess they send, before they actually hybridized (ph) them to the array they send a report and I’m trying to think, I don’t know. The report was fine but maybe it did say they were going to, I ","P1-N400241":"don’t think so but they rerun it on human stuff but I don’t know it just doesn’t so easy. But, anyway [00:08:18]
THERAPIST: So they said they were going to run it on mouse stuff?
CLIENT: I’m not sure; I don’t know. I think it depends on the, I don’t know they give an I.D. for each sample and I have to look at that and see if I can tell by the label because of the numbers they have.
THERAPIST: I think I’m aware (ph) that you feel in the middle of this catastrophe and as so, I don’t know, maybe you’re also the most vulnerable and nobody else is really going to take any of it on probably including me. Not that I would take on blame, you know well actually Katie ","P1-N4002C1":"it was me, but that talking with me about it you’ll still feel like it’s on you and up to you to deal with. And I won’t help you feel; I’ll sort of leave it there. [00:10:26]
CLIENT: Right. Yes, I mean I guess I feel responsible and there’s, I mean they came to me; I just can’t ignore it. And I guess I’m just afraid me being negatively, like the post-doc samples our samples are, I don’t know. Post-doc saying you can’t manage, this is your ","P1-N4002E1":"job to work with these companies and managing them but it’s always something with them. I don’t know. [00:11:38]
THERAPIST: It wouldn’t change the credit deadline.
CLIENT: Right. So, I don’t know.
THERAPIST: So yes I’d imagine that when people give you the samples they are the end product of a lot of work that they’ve done. And then it’s sort of they’re both, I mean they’re so invested in learning the results they’ve gotten from the samples and so they’re ","P1-N4003A1":"always intense and anxious with you about it. And the company on the other side I gather is just kind of flaky and inconsistent? [00:15:21]
CLIENT: Well I guess the results are. I mean, yes, the data -
THERAPIST: I see, so -
CLIENT: Somehow we’ve gotten I think it was September or October everything was failing and we didn’t know why and it ended up being one of their operators who wasn’t doing something right.
THERAPIST: At the company?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I see. There’s really two things to contend with that you never really know at the time, which it is. There’s error on the part of the company and then there’s the science just not turning out the way that people want which I understand happens all the time. [00:16:01]
CLIENT: Right. Another thing too is what people give me isn’t always the best quality, what [inaudible at 00:16:18], how healthy the cells are, et cetera. So if they fail it’s not always my fault or the company’s fault; it might be their fault. And just in terms of why I have no idea; ","P1-N400481":"it could be you, it could be me, the company, or it just could be this sometimes things don’t work. And there’s no rhyme or reason. I’ve looked into this extensively at why samples fail. Is it from every point of variability I’ve looked and there’s no correlation, there’s ","P1-N400482":"no, I don’t know. [00:17:17]
THERAPIST: Sometimes it doesn’t work.
CLIENT: Yes and then something in the sweet spot will fail so, I don’t know, there’s no and so it’s hard to explain I guess so I kind of give a reason.
THERAPIST: But you’re the one who gives people the bad news and deals with their immediate reaction. [00:18:45]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And that gets extremely stressful where you can’t [00:20:28]
CLIENT: Right. And yes and also, I don’t know, it makes me kind of yes, vulnerable to other people and their judgment. Yes, it’s nice when I can say oh your sample’s back; here’s your data. It’s usually okay thanks, that’s great. But when something goes bad it’s ","P1-N4005A1":"kind of why, why, and I can’t give a clear cut answer so I feel like I’m always kind of judged or kind of viewed negatively and, I don’t know. I want to seem competent; I want to seem capable or kind of have a trust with their samples or whatever but I don’t know. [00:21:36]
THERAPIST: It’s kind of much more dramatic. It reminds me a little bit of the military, you have to inform both of the loved ones who died or something like that. I mean it’s not quite like that. [00:23:30]
CLIENT: I know. I mean it’s not always bad or yes it’s just and people don’t always react like they’ll send 10 samples to [] (ph). Okay, they’re happy that tonight that’s doable (ph) but it’s just weird. They hide (sp) them to the wrong shipments, and kind of [00:24:06]
THERAPIST: Wait, they what?
CLIENT: They it’s called hybridization, they hide (sp) them to the wrong shipment. It’s kind of like friendly fire or something, right? I don’t know. [Pause] But we’ll see if it works out. I guess also what I’m a little worried about is, I don’t know. This is kind ","P1-N400641":"of this whole working with this company, processing samples and all that is kind of what I’m going to have to teach or kind of pass on to the person replacing me. [00:25:16]
THERAPIST: Like there’s not a sort of well-defined protocol? [00:26:11]
CLIENT: Right. I mean I can think of the reason why they probably hyde (sp) them to human because that’s not out of order and the only time they do that is when there are human samples or I sent them a small amount of figures and the argument is most people do that. That’s probably why they ","P1-N4006A1":"thought it was similar because it was a small shipment from our lab, blah, blah, blah.
THERAPIST: Yes, I guess there’s messiness all around, really. I mean certainly with dealing with the company but also with people’s reactions. [00:28:07]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You’re constantly starting to feel like you’re [inaudible at 00:31:47]?
CLIENT: Right, well just in me, I don’t know. This is one thing, one small aspect of running the rest of the job and I was feeling like what do I have to do today and hopefully they’ll reply. And then I have to deal with other things too and not wanting there’s just so much responsibility ","P1-N4007E1":"that I’m kind of, I’m holding up or cleaning up the messes or something like that. [00:32:42]
THERAPIST: I’m a little confused. I mean I think I got what you meant when you said you don’t want to complain or make excuses. And also I mean I get that this is only one small part of what you do and that you’re feeling a bit overwhelmed by all the responsibility that you have and ","P1-N400821":"the other stuff you have to deal with like the messes you have to clean up. I guess the thing I’m not sure about is how that, the one follows from the other. My sense is that you have a sense of how those things are connected, not willing to complain or make excuses and feeling like it’s ","P1-N400822":"just a small part of what you do and that you’ve got more on you than you want. [00:34:01]
CLIENT: I don’t know.
THERAPIST: Maybe you don’t and that’s fine, I just -
CLIENT: Well I was just going to say that, yes it’s just the feeling of being overwhelmed and I wanted to complain I had a million other things to do and this is kind of, I don’t know, just something I really don’t want to deal with or really don’t want to think about. So yes, ","P1-N400881":"then that other thing I think I just I wanted to complain but then God (ph) it’s always something. [00:35:00]
THERAPIST: I see. But I imagine because you worry that complaining would make you feel bad in a way that would make all this, make you feel more overwhelmed.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Because you feel that’s not how you’re supposed to be and because [inaudible at 00:35:52] yourself?
CLIENT: Right. [Pause] I don’t know. It’s kind of because I can’t allow myself to complain or say [that I was] (ph), or say I’ve got other things to do. Anyway it’s kind of that same kind of feeling like hanging out with Marlowe. It’s kind of backsliding or feeling ","P1-N400921":"sorry for myself or I don’t know. [00:37:09]
THERAPIST: You’re feeling this kind of like you let yourself go far enough in talking in the way you did about what’s been giving you trouble in dealing with the company and with what just happened yesterday. And the point is not to let that turn into a bunch of complaining about stuff. [00:38:30]
CLIENT: I mean I think it just makes everything else harder and so does I mean, yes I mean something heavier and I’m tired, I’m hard (ph) and don’t want to do anything kind of. And so, I don’t know. And I know since we have something, lately I’ve been a little bit more, ","P1-N400981":"if I can describe it, like not taking out Marlowe and just be more to myself. I’m better able to keep from doing things like working and stuff. I don’t know, just a product of that, just moving I guess and keep working. [00:39:53]
THERAPIST: I wonder if there’s also if you start to feel like you were complaining it would feel like something a little different between you and me. I mean if I were sort of listening and attentive while you were complaining, you would start to feel more, more down on yourself but also more ","P1-N4009A1":"helpless, vulnerable, in need of my taking care of you or something like that and maybe that doesn’t sit well with you. [00:40:58]
CLIENT: Right. Yes, that’s exactly it. [Pause] I don’t know. In a way it’s something like this [inaudible at 00:42:08] with the company. I guess it feels like there’s no making it better; there’s no, yes this sucks but there’s no solution or, yes. [00:42:56]
THERAPIST: Well why don’t we stop?
CLIENT: Okay. [00:43:32]