TITLE: Client "Ju", Session June 3, 2013: Client feels bad about borrowing money from a friend to go on a trip; is frustrated with her parents' failure to listen to her and modify their behavior.
DESCRIPTION: Client feels bad about borrowing money from a friend to go on a trip; is frustrated with her parents' failure to listen to her and modify their behavior.
CLIENT: Okay, so let me just cancel. Oh, my God. Yeah. That was pretty. What day did you want to reschedule to?
THERAPIST: One day I know could do would be Friday, which is the 14th.
CLIENT: That would not be possible for me.
THERAPIST: I feared as much, but it's the only thing at moment I know I've got. So, I will let you know if I have anything.
CLIENT: Okay. My other question is you sent me an e-mail that I didn't respond to about when you could run my card.
THERAPIST: Oh. This was like last month?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I asked because I just did billing again this month, but I didn't get to a few people, including you.
CLIENT: So, the answer is I don't have any money until the 14th. If you could e-mail me what the current bill is, that would be good. [00:01:30]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I will do that. Like I said, I did most of them yesterday, but I didn't get to you. So, I will do that. Yeah. I tend to do people who are self pay first.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I will send you the bill, probably over this weekend.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I know you won't have any money until the 14th. That way you will have a bill.
CLIENT: I'm pondering asking my parents to pay my bill for my birthday, but if you can't wait, that's fine.
THERAPIST: Okay. I can wait until then.
CLIENT: I'm saying I'm going to see my parents on Saturday.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. I can get it done earlier.
CLIENT: Yeah. If possible.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That should be fine.
CLIENT: Okay. [00:02:30]
THERAPIST: I will pull up my calendar and note that. (pause)
CLIENT: Related to the billing. One of the things that happens to me when I'm feeling depressed, especially if I'm stressed and depressed, is I completely lose track of all my money. [00:03:30]
THERAPIST: I see yeah. Right. [00:05:10]
CLIENT: The room was booked. I call someone over to help. It was just super stressful. My least favorite everything. I also felt a little bit guilty because someone had reported a little bit of a problem, but I couldn't get it to repeat and I was like yeah, okay, whatever and it was the same problem ","P1-N4003D1":"just magnified. So, that happened and then I was trying to fix something else. The computers the instructor made very mouthy, snarky remark.
THERAPIST: Say that again.
CLIENT: The Instructor.
THERAPIST: Towards you?
CLIENT: Towards me. Again, I was running around and I said something to someone else how Chet wasn't around and she was like is that why everything is not working well or something like that? I said no, if Chet was here, he would have called me. More than once I've had people want, they feel that if ","P1-N400451":"something's going wrong that they should talk to Chet. [00:06:30]
THERAPIST: I'm sorry. Two what?
CLIENT: Extra security searches which I always find stressful.
THERAPIST: So, you had been pulled for it?
CLIENT: Yeah. Last year it happened to me twice.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I always get irrationally freaked out. I think what if I forgot and left my bag? I don't even know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Last year I was like oh, I actually have a pot brownie in my bag that I completely forget about and the time to deal with that is not when they pull you aside for extra security. That did not happen to me, but I just, it was really h to get myself all together to go. The other thing that I was ","P1-N4005B1":"really worried about two friends of mine who were going there for their first time and I was concerned that they would be super clingy and needy. [10:00:00]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Also, a friend of mine who is a sci-fi geek and local, she teaches. Women's studies. She's doing an anthological study on science fiction fans and embodiment and some other things. When I heard.
THERAPIST: Fan's and embodiment? [00:13:30]
CLIENT: Science fiction fans and how they perceive embodiment of themselves within fandom. How they experience their body or themselves within like conventions. One of her findings was that pretty much everyone she talked to had that fear that they would go to the convention and there would be no one ","P1-N4006B1":"to talk to or sit or eat with. Regardless of their relative popularity, everyone had that and I was like oh, good, great. It was, I don't know. She's telling me about other parts of it and she mentioned that. Oh, we're all crazy that way. Great. [00:14:30]
THERAPIST: It's like being taken over. By people intending to take you over, like your friends who want to help or kind of just take another being overwhelmed by the noise and how about a table of 14 people.
CLIENT: Yeah. One of the things that I was feeling and was the most frustrated and worried about was this local friend, Zen. I call her Zen to tell her apart. [00:16:30]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: The reason is didn't do anything is complicated and weird. So, she, reinvents herself like every four years just as a reboot. It's really disconcerting and weird. So, I don't know. When I first met her, she was in the midst of like a I'm really like, I'm kinky and queer and all these things ","P1-N400751":"and I was like oh, I like all those things. Promptly got involved with making groups for her and then dropped out half way through the year without telling anyone. She's bi-polar and has been hospitalized more than once for intense and suicidal feelings, but doesn't like to take any medication because ","P1-N400752":"it makes her fat, but she also insists she has very intense symptoms. It's just that she personally doesn't want it. [00:18:00]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Which I find very troubling. Then also she's like oh, I just grew out of that.
THERAPIST: The bipolar disorder?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Because she has that.
THERAPIST: Right. That's too bad.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's really painful for me to watch at times. Especially when she's really winding herself up. It's just like mania. She gets other people kind of sucked in to it and is completely like narcissistically focused on whatever is the thing. So, she was doing that and then she installed keystroke ","P1-N400851":"log software on her boyfriend's computer. [00:19:00]
THERAPIST: Wait. I am sorry.
CLIENT: She installed spyware, like keystroke recording software on his computer.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Caught him cheating, dumped him and started dating this other guy that has a live in girlfriend and then did a personality reboot. The newest guy in her life is in to computer gaming. So, she's like oh, I'm not in to burlesque anymore. That's boring. Now I have a woman in gaming who is interested ","P1-N4008D1":"in feminism and I'm only going to wear jeans and t-shirts and I'm going to dye my hair black and that whole other thing doesn't exist anymore. I'm just like okay. She went from I'm really sexy. I'm going to dress like Joan from Madmen 24\/7 and be very like be sexually provocative and sexy and talking ","P1-N4008D2":"about that to I will only wear jeans, t-shirts and hoodies and make up is the devil. [00:20:10]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, that and then at first she said she's a girl geek. Then she's like no, I'm a feminist gamer geek. I'm just like okay. When she does the reinventions, she kind of pretends the other ones didn't exist. Which is also really like.
THERAPIST: Odd.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's an odd thing. My roommate Ashby and people who have known her for a while and they just think yeah, she does that. They kind of said it to me.
THERAPIST: It's often, I don't know, that's I mean it's usually probably about running away from something.
CLIENT: Yeah. I guess a lot of what I find disturbing about her is that I'm just like you're not mentally okay and you're just running around. To me, it's really clear that you're a bipolar and having a lot of problems. [00:21:40]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's not going to go anywhere. So, she reinvented herself as a feminist gamer chick person. That thing happened where like I know a lot of feminists on line and some of them are gamers and now Zen has them or is like oh, I see so you know Karen so she can help you which is fine. Except for she ","P1-N4009F1":"said something like I'm going to go travel this year. Why did non one tell me about it and was raging for like a month that everyone was horrible for not telling her about a public convention that I go to every year and talk about. She actually should have done it in person. Like, this very intense ","P1-N4009F2":"kind of manic rant in which she didn't stop for breath and I was just like. [00:23:30]
THERAPIST: Fast and pressured.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: Fast and pressured.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. So, I was worried about that. One of the other things, I just felt like do you not want anyone to think that I'm responsible for anything to do with her? If she's having a meltdown, do not grab me. Go grab her husband. If she flies off the handle about something weird, I'm not going ","P1-N400A71":"to explain it. So, that was awkward. I also knew when we both got there she was going to be upset that more people needed me than her. When she goes to gaming conventions everyone knows who she is and she gets a lot of attention. People are all like Zen, Zen, Zen, Zen. Oh, my God. You're so brilliant. ","P1-N400A72":"Tell me about all these things. She didn't get that at all and was clearly pissed about it. In advance, it was really frustrating to be trying to have... [00:25:00]
THERAPIST: Sorry. Was she one of the people who was latching on to you?
CLIENT: Yes, she's one of the people who is latching on to me.
THERAPIST: Yeah. The one with the husband?
CLIENT: Yeah. And, usually he does a lot of intensely enabling calming behavior when she's wound up which I have a lot of feelings about, about but I'm like that's your relationship I guess. Anybody who was there and that she had someone else to freak out and have melt down but on the other hand I was ","P1-N400AF1":"like, I got frustrated and I was like you need to handle her. [00:26:00]
THERAPIST: I see. [00:29:00]
CLIENT: As it turns out she has gotten much better. When she visited me maybe four years ago every single person I introduced her to dislike her.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Which was impressive. They were all like what the fuck is up with this chick? Like, what? Ashby almost killed her during that visit. So, yeah. I mean for valid reasons, actually. Jamie had taken a cardigan out of Ashby's bedroom to put on because she was cold. It was brand new. Ashby had barely ","P1-N400BB1":"worn it. It was a fancy cardigan. Ashby got in to a conflict and said that's mine. I just got it. She was like yeah, well, I was cold and it thought it would keep me warm. I was like you know in my bedroom there are clothes and she still didn't. I had to remove it from her and hand it back to Ashby. ","P1-N400BB2":"It was stressful and also I was really like what the fuck. So, yeah. I guess I was really worried about both of them, unpleasantly to humor her over the weekend. Which mostly didn't happen, but still.
THERAPIST: It was stressful?
CLIENT: Yes. It just worried me. It was just background worry the whole trip. I think it sort of, the other big frustration is that my birthday is on the 13th and my mom's like so, we're going to come down and visit you. [00:31:20]
THERAPIST: Right. I think you mentioned her driving up for dinner.
CLIENT: Yeah. They also at one point said we're retired so we can come down and spend the whole day because they know I take it off every year. I managed to cut that off. I negotiated it down to them coming this weekend which also means I can't do something in the city I actually really wanted to do ","P1-N400C31":"this weekend. My roommate, Ashby, offered to be a human shield during this endeavor because I was complaining about it. I was like I really just want someone else to distract them, so she offered. I guess I feel like I'm planning some kind of motivation plan. What is the bare minimum time? What is the ","P1-N400C32":"minimum amount of time I can spend helping deflect any discussions of anything in advance. How to deploy Ashby as a human shield without making her want to kill me? Also, not having my parents try to discuss anything to do with emotions or guilt trip me. Because my parents, when I was away last weekend, ","P1-N400C33":"they decided to go to in hard this weekend to go, let's plan. [00:33:20]
THERAPIST: For when you're here.
CLIENT: Yeah. I have to go this weekend but I really don't want to. (pause) I also don't like right now I don't want my parents. I sort of feel like I don't want a gift from them right now. My parents have asked and I've thought of things, but I mostly just want you to not like... The only present I ","P1-N400C71":"would like is for us to undo our conversation. The next present I would like is for my mom to have some sense of why I was upset. [00:34:20]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Also, a plane ticket to visit a friend and they have said no to that before and I don't know why.
THERAPIST: I think you mentioned that. It's not the cost.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's not. They had me give them what they want to give me for a present. Sometimes they have given me money, but my mom doesn't like that to be the only present. She prefers that it's like an object of some kind, although they offered me driving lessons and I had also suggested maybe I ","P1-N400CF1":"wanted a language class. Yeah. It's just very, like this year my mom has been trying to buy me an e-reader for three years. I don't really want it, but sure.
THERAPIST: You didn't want what?
CLIENT: I don't really want one particularly.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: She was so insistent on it that I was like okay, I guess I'm getting an e-reader.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So. Yeah. [00:36:00]
THERAPIST: If anybody knew they did want an e-reader it would probably be you. Libraries and technology. Books. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think she decided that's what I want because I like books.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And goddammit I was going to get the thing.
THERAPIST: The thing that she knew you wanted.
CLIENT: Yes. It's also sort of like the language of love and how to express love and one of the ways I do is definitely through gifts. I like to give a nice person a nice gift and it's really difficult for me when someone won't give me any sort of information about what they want or what they want immediately ","P1-N400E71":"or are super picky and really only want the precise thing.
THERAPIST: Right. Which to you is not so personalized anymore.
CLIENT: Yeah. So, my parents and my brother and his wife all want me to give them specifics and say this is the exact thing that I want. [00:37:35]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I have been working on letting go of the idea that they will figure out something. I gave them a list of five things that I totally want. Here are three general categories.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It just really didn't work. Like, I asked one year can you get me a cookbook that you have used and liked and what I got is the coffee table cookbook from my brother which we have never used because it's a coffee table book. His girlfriend had suggested it. My mom bought me a remainder cookbook ","P1-N400F31":"that someone else said they had liked. That's not what I asked for. So, figuring out what to ask them for is really, I really want them to just get me something that I would find meaningful. Like a plane ticket. A variety of things. There's nothing I can do. [00:39:00]
THERAPIST: I think a lot of this is I feel like you're telling this a little bit so I will be the one who's really angry on your behalf at all these people are being so unreasonable and making demands on you, unfair demands, generally. Or generally being pains in the ass. You're just having a lot of ","P1-N400F51":"that I think and none of your own sort of frustrations. I mean there's some worry about how it will affect you or how it could ruin things for you, but not anger or frustration which is sort of I imagine is in there somewhere.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm mean I'm not saying, it's partly, sorry, go ahead. [00:40:35]
CLIENT: Part of it is that I am really tired. I'm just really exhausted from dealing with my mom the past couple of weeks that I have kind of progressed to the numb stage where I'm like okay. It's happening. Blah. Today, in general, has been kind of a numb day for whatever reason. Yeah. I mean I guess ","P1-N400FB1":"the thing was that I was having, I was really scared to talk to Molly about paying her back. She said I could pay her back, not the 31st, which is that payday. Unless I couldn't. So, I felt just horrible. (pause) [00:42:00]
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. I'll see you tomorrow.
CLIENT: Okay. I will see you tomorrow.
THERAPIST: Okay. See you.