TITLE: Client "Ju", Session March 11, 2014: Client discusses race, bigotry, and professional librarian roles.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses race, bigotry, and professional librarian roles.
CLIENT: Our whole class got an extension on an assignment [as I was about to ask, (ph?)] which was great.
THERAPIST: I hope it works. I assume that if they call more questions and they seem like reasonable questions, I should just answer them?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: They probably won’t but [ ] (inaudible at 00:00:21)
CLIENT: I didn’t go to work today, which . . . (sighs) [00:01:05] It feels kind of uncomfortable or weird to not go to work because I’m not feeling mentally good, as opposed to just being really tired or sick or something else. My brain was not doing well. There have been a couple of things ","P1-N400131":"for project support, which for reasons I don’t totally understand, have just become like everyone wants to complain about it. [00:02:05] There is no one central to complain to really so they complain to me, which is not something I like, the latest being like automatic computer reboots and one ","P1-N400132":"group of staffers wanted it to stop and another wanted it to continue. I was just like – okay. So I got the major players in a room for an hour and we just hashed it out – so we’re done. Then three days later, one of my co-workers when I came by to pick something up from him, started ","P1-N400133":"ranting or speaking at full volume in kind of intense language and putting his head in his hands and being like “this is so stupid.” [00:03:17] I just said, “I don’t want to have this conversation because I feel uncomfortable. I feel like you’re being hostile.” Then ","P1-N400134":"he very insistently explained that he wasn’t being hostile; it was that he felt comfortable with me and he was just being expressive. I’m like hmm, okay, and then continued. Part of the grievance is that we’re doing the thing he wants, so I don’t know how we’re having an ","P1-N400135":"hour of you ranting when the thing that you want is happening. [00:04:00]
THERAPIST: Without doing a thing?
CLIENT: Yes, because normally what I would have done before the library merged was say, “Okay, head of my library, what do you want to do?” or “Okay, I’m going to ask this person to have their manager escalate to the head of Aurora.” But there is no head of Aurora, so it’s ","P1-N4001D1":"like well, is this conceptually local or shared and conceptually . . ? [00:09:00] I didn’t realize I had been doing it until my co-worker brought it up. I think that’s probably also part of why I have been getting so many responses and e-mails and things. My intent was that if there was ","P1-N4001D2":"a problem, it would be good if I fixed it rather than just saying “I don’t know.” It’s not quite working that way. Sometimes it does, but I’m just also feeling very negative about everything I do at work, which doesn’t help. [00:10:12]
THERAPIST: I wouldn’t know, but I’m not surprised from the things you’ve said about them.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it’s every day sometimes. [00:11:00] It was brought up that Law Library never does this. “Oh, you’re right. Wait . . .” I guess my people are at the top of the complaining scale and – I don’t know. I’m not sure what, if anything, that means.
THERAPIST: For one thing, you’re unlucky.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yes. And it also is a super open office. Everyone just walks in and feels free to talk. [00:12:02] (pause) The other thing about library school right now is that I had some sort of grand, reflective plans for this class. It’s kind of a library, but in one class, and I wanted to use ","P1-N400271":"this thing about librarianship as a whole, as opposed to a bunch of little classes. But [ ] (inaudible at 00:12:43). (pause) [00:13:01] We have to post on message boards to discuss instead of in-class interaction. The article that we discussed for this week was a study of do reference librarians provide ","P1-N400272":"adequate reference responses? If someone comes in asking about [OGBT] (ph?) issues, do reference librarians give them the same quality of attention that they would if they came in and asked about dogs or anything else not political? There was a whole long set-up for the study and the answer was yes, ","P1-N400273":"many of my friends’ librarians provide completely crappy inadequate services. [00:14:04] I’m reading it in front of the class. Most of the class has already read it and responded. I go to look at the responses and everyone is tearing this article to shreds. The first person who commented, ","P1-N400274":"the message board had said, “Is the professor trolling us? Is she giving us the worst example ever of a research article just to see if we get it?” I associated asking if someone is trolling me with something casual, not school. [00:15:04]
THERAPIST: I don’t know the expression well.
CLIENT: Like is this person posting something or doing something that they’re not seriously interested in, but they’re just doing it to make people react?
THERAPIST: Inflammatory.
CLIENT: This kid, his thing was did she make this article for us to critique because she wants to see if we realize how bad it is? Many people were caught up with the idea that, because the librarians weren’t told in advance that they were doing research, that that was deceptive and horrible and ","P1-N4002F1":"unfair to librarians. Maybe they were just having a bad day. [00:16:10]
THERAPIST: My God.
CLIENT: And then a lot of people were very concerned with the gender of the person who came up to ask questions, like if this person is an adult woman who comes up to the reference desk and says, “I’m looking for information about starting a gay\/straight alliance at a high school.” ","P1-N400331":"So she’s asking about gay\/straight alliance. Then the second question is did the librarian have any [fiction] (ph?) because the students want to do a book club? Very simple.
THERAPIST: It’s like a similar role and similar questions except for . . . [00:16:54]
CLIENT: Right. And also to see if they even know what modern [OGBT] (ph?) fiction is or if they give them terrible non-fiction resources or adequate.
THERAPIST: Is that a study done at the university?
CLIENT: It was done at a series of public libraries.
THERAPIST: Who organized it?
CLIENT: The organizer of the study was a university professor in Mexico.
THERAPIST: Right. [ ] (inaudible at 00:17:31)
CLIENT: There actually was (laughs) a page, double-column, about the process of getting it fast; and then it took him eight months. I was also kind of like dude, it got through that. Also there were a couple of discussions about why the professor wasn’t putting it in herself; all of that was discussed. ","P1-N400431":"[00:18:06] Several students also thought that the study was irrelevant and unimportant because maybe the librarians were just having a bad day. Sometimes you go in and you ask about box turtles and you get poor service because that happens.
THERAPIST: Right, but they can troll for that?
CLIENT: Exactly. Also the point is how do librarians respond to a charged question? They asked a ton of people. Part of what also troubled me is that no one talked about the use. [00:19:03] The point of the study was being able to go to the library. [It’s been sexually isolated; if they talk about ","P1-N400471":"suicide, what help will they get?] (ph?) People were responding to that part, which I found basically most people I know have some intense memory of going to the library and looking up “gay” in the dictionary or going to the stacks.
THERAPIST: I see. So there is something significant about this being in a library. Of course, it happens to be a library because this is a library school, but actually there is kind of a thing there.
CLIENT: I think people who are older than me, it’s like what is this thing I’m even feeling? Does it even exist? Then there is what is gay? [00:20:09] People are telling me these horrible things that happen in the schoolyard. Am I a child molester?
THERAPIST: I see. What’s an anonymous place where I can find information about this because [ ] (inaudible at 00:20:22).
CLIENT: Yes. And even on Google, you don’t want anyone to see the computer. You don’t want to use your home computer. And also a lot of people mentioned feeling like not checking out library books because they were worried that the librarian would tell their parents. There are people I know ","P1-N4004F1":"who grew up in semi-rural areas and were all like “I would never check out a book like that” because they felt like the librarian would tell their parents. [00:21:00] In school, a lot of people think libraries are kind of a refuge where you can hide during lunch period. It’s a thing; ","P1-N4004F2":"and it remains a thing, even with needing to use Google because you don’t want to use your home computer. As I was continuing to read, I was trying to respond to the article and then respond to other students, and it was very overwhelming. I was like this conversation clearly [ ] (inaudible at ","P1-N4004F3":"00:21:51) feelings with people in this class. It also kind of seems like you don’t know me, that you’ve never thought about this. [00:22:06] The article laid out the issues, so if you read the article, explain why this is important. Also, it’s important, so I ended up basically posting ","P1-N4004F4":"that this discussion makes me really uncomfortable. [I was thinking I should be like] (ph?), “Hi, I am a black lesbian,” because I didn’t think they’d understand the word queer or bisexual, and this is really uncomfortable. And then I thought I would just be cool. Then I said ","P1-N4004F5":"that everyone should be aware that when they are at a reference desk or in class or wherever, there may be OGBT people there that they are not aware of, so maybe they should think about that. [00:23:10] Then I got a couple of angry, defensive response, including one from someone who didn’t pick ","P1-N4004F6":"up on the part where I said I wasn’t straight. She has two high school students, therefore she understands the problems.
THERAPIST: You mean two kids?
CLIENT: Yes. She had two kids that were in high school; and were straight, but she understands [bulleting] (ph?) Someone else who severely back-pedaled. No, I just critiqued the method; and when I used the phrase “homosexual question” that wasn’t creepy. [00:24:01] I didn’t actually ","P1-N400531":"directly say “homosexual question was creepy,” but it was. (pause) A) That was really exhausting and stressful and B) I have to do group project.
THERAPIST: Sorry – a group project that can be completely on a different subject?
CLIENT: Yes; because if we had a different subject . . .
THERAPIST: I understand that doesn’t solve the problem, it’s just that [ ] (inaudible at 00:24:41).
CLIENT: Our general policy is to not step into – unless, of course, it’s discussions; but I really wish she had because it was just really hard to do that part of the school work because – Jesus Christ. [00:25:12] The group project is going to be about public libraries, I’m not ","P1-N4005B1":"feeling the urge to work with my fellow students at all.
THERAPIST: If the online discussion [was vague,] (ph?) the professor could step in. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Especially after I posted, saying that this feels bad. I don’t know. I actually expected that after I posted that it felt very uncomfortable, she would respond. [00:26:03] This is the professor I have taken four classes with and I really liked, and I’m just very surprised. I’m ","P1-N4005F1":"taken aback a little. Nothing this contentious came up in any of her other classes. Actually, this is the professor who is – a different class – but where we read the parable of the [ ] (inaudible at 00:26:39). I think it was mentioned that that sort of passionate discussion, she was just ","P1-N4005F2":"going to let it happen, [that it did feel creepy.] (pause) [00:27:09] That article, I felt, wasn’t about me (chuckles) I don’t know. I am perfectly aware. It’s one of those weird things where I’m constantly aware that some portion of the class, people I meet, whatever, is going ","P1-N4005F3":"to be disapproving, either unconsciously or consciously, vocally or not, about gay things. I guess everyone thought that everyone there was straight because people usually soft-pedal the thought of this a little more. [00:28:05] Some people did soft-pedal it, but there were three guys who were very intense.
THERAPIST: I imagine it helps a little if you can anticipate when people respond like that, but I don’t actually imagine it helps that much. I mean, if you’re under assault, you’re under assault. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: It helps for some things. There was a [workshop] (ph?) and video conference later and I was like okay, that’s a workshop that I’m not going to – things like that.
THERAPIST: It’s kind of like everybody else. [00:28:58] You’re not saying that everybody made a comment that was hurtful.
CLIENT: I guess the longest and most vocal, most engaged, I guess I would say, students were the ones who were very negative. That also sort of directly attacks the idea that this was even an issue. I think, for me, that was actually the biggest part, when people were like “I don’t even ","P1-N400671":"understand why people . . . This isn’t a problem; it’s irrelevant.” (pause) [00:29:59] What I was thinking was, basically, so it’s cool if the idea is to commit suicide? That’s not what the person was saying, but that’s how I felt pretty strongly. (pause) Anticipating ","P1-N400672":"getting the attack only helps if you can disengage really fast before things get going.
THERAPIST: Right. You get out of there.
CLIENT: But yeah, it just always sucks. (pause) [00:31:00] It’s also that I’ve been feeling a lot of negative things about librarianship as a conceptual career lately. I’ve been somewhat trying to hold off on thinking a lot about it because I’m like, “Okay, it’s the ","P1-N4006B1":"weather. Maybe I’m just depressed and stressed. I’m almost done with this degree. I shouldn’t drop out with one-and-a-half courses left. I should just finish, remembering that I’m at a toxic workplace and then go forward.” But experiences like that don’t help. (pause)
THERAPIST: You can do that.
CLIENT: Yeah, I can; and I am looking forward to it. (scoffs) [00:35:04] I’m looking forward to it and I guess I just have these moments like “oh, God, is this going to be forever?” to the extent in which the U.S. is kind of, by default, dominated by straight people and white people ","P1-N400711":"and [ ] (inaudible at 00:35:32). It’s always going to be there, but (sighs) I guess it reminds me of the reasons why I didn’t go into academia, because I didn’t want to have to be on the diversity committee and help the Blacks Association and all these other things. [00:36:07] There ","P1-N400712":"are other reasons why I didn’t do it, but that’s part of it. I’m just like (sighs) God damn it. The point of my being a librarian is that I get a librarian. In my head I’m just a librarian, whatever that means, whatever I’m doing.
THERAPIST: Like being a dentist? What I mean is if somebody as a particular role and does particular things and doesn’t necessarily take on a particular role in the community, which a professor kind of does a little more.
CLIENT: Yeah, I kind of want to be involved with the community that I live in. [00:37:05] Like I’m looking at public [ ] (inaudible at [0:37:07). I’m with the library, but I don’t want to feel that I have responsibilities to the community like that, because then people won’t ","P1-N400751":"think of the librarian as having to go work on [ ] outreach. I could, but . . . (sighs) I’ve been thinking a lot about how I would like to be – not left alone, but kind of. (chuckles) [00:37:58] I want an office with a door or, at least, a door somewhere in the office.
THERAPIST: I guess you don’t want [people to throw] (ph?) all this stuff in your face.
CLIENT: I want to do my job and then have people be like “oh, thank you” or not. (sighs) (pause) Part of it that was difficult when I was having kept crying all the time was that there was never anywhere to go that was private; and leaving the building, there is a door checker and you walk ","P1-N400791":"by staff people. There was nowhere to go; there was nowhere I could go that was private or even semi-private, which also then made me cry, as well. (pause) [00:39:09] I think this open office is having more negative effects than I kind of thought of, just because of how intense it is. I want to just ","P1-N400792":"not have to deal with everyone. Also having my desk facing Chet; this is great. I don’t know. (pause) [00:39:54] The other thing with the open office is that the librarians who are librarians already keep space that has that door in front of it, so you have to go through a key-card door to get ","P1-N400793":"into the room; and they have high cube walls. They work on desks for a while and then they don’t; so sometimes they’re on public view at the reference desk and sometimes they’re not. Usually they’re not on desk for more than two or three hours at a stretch and then they go hide ","P1-N400794":"in the back. I really want that part, the hiding-in-the-back part – or even right now, if I could do the references for two hours, it would at least be different. [00:41:03] I wouldn’t be staring at Chet. Being at the reference desk you’re in public, but you have this whole desk to ","P1-N400795":"yourself and no one is behind you. No one is sitting right in front of you.
THERAPIST: Like you don’t have people in your face and all over the place. It’s a little more space. I guess it’s not that different actually, when I think about it, from what you were saying at first about the IT stuff and how you’re sort of in the middle of it. [00:41:57]
CLIENT: The other thing that essentially I meant to start with, was that on Friday, Ashby had to tell an employee that they need to quit or they were going to get fired, basically. She was really stressed going into it, did the thing, and then the person called out sick on Monday when they were supposed ","P1-N4007D1":"to tell – whatever. I don’t know what happened today. What happened in that situation was that this manager, her staff was really frustrated with her. They came and complained to first the manager, and then they complained to Ashby. Then Ashby’s response was this manager is pretty ","P1-N4007D2":"terrible. The whole team is giving me the feedback, so we’re going to fire her. I just thought that was so exciting and novel. (chuckles) It sucked for her and she was very stressed, but to me I was just like what? That’s great. That’s so wonderful. [00:43:11] I’ve never had ","P1-N4007D3":"the experience of going to H.R. about a manager and them doing anything helpful.
THERAPIST: It was sort of exciting and reassuring and a bit depressing at the same time.
CLIENT: Yes. Exactly. And because she’s been talking a lot about it, I’ve been thinking a lot about it.
THERAPIST: Right. We should stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I will see you next week.