TITLE: Client "Ju", Session February 19, 2014: Client discusses professional interests and struggles.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses professional interests and struggles.
CLIENT: So I feel a little ridiculous bringing up the thing that wasn’t bothering me the most today but it is the thing that’s bothering me the most. So there’s this, so you know of course what selfies are. So librarians and poster (ph) people make up shelfies [laughs], yes pictures ","P1-N4000B1":"of your bookshelves, and -
THERAPIST: A little library humor there?
CLIENT: Exactly. And I think A, they’re hilarious conceptually, and also it’s because I work at Widener (ph) there’s all these really old books and there’s this one section to walk by which is kind of like the Red Scare section as it turns out. And so there’s all these ","P1-N4000F1":"amazing books like I Died With the Kaiser, Communist blah, blah, blah, and they often have really arresting covers. So I’ve taken pictures of them and said check it out. And also some of the librarians at work decided to basically rogue do a Tumblr because [00:01:38]
THERAPIST: What’s a tumbler?
CLIENT: Basically a site that’s really good for reposting pictures and video.
THERAPIST: From elsewhere on the web or just from wherever?
CLIENT: From wherever. Sometimes people will have original content, like there’s a librarian wardrobe Tumblr, which is -
THERAPIST: I guess it’s more of thematic and social than YouTube.
CLIENT: It’s more social; I wouldn’t say thematic. Some people have Tumblrs that are thematic but the majority of users are just kind of like here are some pictures of things I like, movie stills, it’s pretty full of quotes, pretty full of and it’s one of the hip, new social ","P1-N4001B1":"media things and it’s also one of those things where people are kind of saying what do we do with it? And my response is put pictures on it because that’s what you do. [00:02:46]
THERAPIST: Wait, instead of using pictures that have already been taken?
CLIENT: So instead of going to one of Cambridge’s four visual digital repositories, finding a picture of a painting, a sculpture of whatever, and then linking to do this whole shebang, people just walk in, take a picture -
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And Betty steps up to me and says this is horrible. I said if you don’t give someone an easy way to use the image, that’s what they’ll do. And they say no, they can just is there a button that says Tumble this? No. I think is there an obvious way to save the picture? No. So [00:04:15]
THERAPIST: Okay, sorry, I’m a little mixed up.
CLIENT: No, it’s frustrating because Cambridge has all this cool stuff and is insanely neurotic about letting anyone see it, which is super frustrating.
THERAPIST: Yes, and when that used to be the only way people would jump through their hoops. But now that it isn’t -
CLIENT: Yes, and the librarians also often complain that people will go for the first and easy image they can find instead of jumping through the hoops. I say, yes they do. Maybe you should make it easier, just a thought. And it’s really great, one [inaudible at 00:05:02] from Lividia (ph), our ","P1-N4002D1":"librarian, who just could not get why someone would Google Image Search instead of pawing through Cambridge’s stuff. She said she’s a horrible person, I said because he moved (ph). And she’s completely focused on blocking people from taking images and blocking people to make sure [inaudible ","P1-N4002D2":"at 00:05:29] grabbing images as opposed to dating (ph) them. [00:05:34]
THERAPIST: Shelfies
CLIENT: Shelfies. So a couple of the younger, hipper librarians decided to use sort of in rogue Tumblr blog where one of the things that goes was the shelfie I took of some of these Red Scare books and it’s been the most popular thing that they’ve posted because it’s funny. [00:06:11]
THERAPIST: Comical.
CLIENT: Yes, and it’s also very, you look at it and say I know what this is. Other things they posted are kind of interesting historically but less immediately I see why this is important. And so it’s kind of, when they mentioned it I said yes, because that’s the shelfie I took. And ","P1-N400371":"then one of the librarians said oh yes, you’re deeper in the stocks. You like to take pictures with your camera whatever, your phone. And I said okay. So I took a bunch of photos I think that I thought were cool in books and then showed it to the librarian group. And then they said that sucks, ","P1-N400372":"which made me feel very awkward. [00:07:11]
THERAPIST: I see. You’re posting something offensive or you have copyright problems.
CLIENT: Right and I thought but then he says whitewashing history and that’s stupid and whatever. So that whole part just fell through. I guess I just felt awkward like I’d overstepped. And then at work one of the [00:08:14]
THERAPIST: I’m sorry I’m [inaudible at 00:08:15] something. I got it about you having taken the pictures, the shelfies that you then sent to the librarian group and got no response about. And I got what you’re saying about this librarian who felt like nothing could be posted of Black ","P1-N4003F1":"History Month. I didn’t get, it seems like there was a connection there -
CLIENT: There’s one more part.
THERAPIST: Okay. All right.
CLIENT: This is the next part, which is one of the work librarians from my library and honestly started a contest for librarian shelfies. And the contest is that you should take a picture of your own books. He said no rearranging your books. And your coworkers have to try, the contest is to guess who ","P1-N400451":"it is based on the shelfie. And I said, and I felt like that’s really cool; that’s awesome. [00:09:18]
THERAPIST: I can see now how they all go together. [00:10:13]
CLIENT: Yes. And part of just more generally I feel like for whatever reason, probably even work, the librarians that I support in Lamont and Widener are, have over time become not hostile but I’m the computer fixing robot. So they walk in the building, if I walk in usually instead of the first ","P1-N4004B1":"thing being hello, someone would complain something’s broken. And then after I fix it there’s not a thank you, it’s just kind of oh, why is it always broken? In particular when my [inaudible at 00:11:08] particularly bad they’re just, he’s on me. That’s all he ever ","P1-N4004B2":"says to me. He’s on me about why isn’t this working, why can’t I provide a good enough response, a reason for why it’s not working, why everybody (ph) can fix it? And both times I’ve taken disability but I came back. These people said hi, computers are broken. And I think ","P1-N4004B3":"can you just put a little are you doing okay? [00:11:45]
THERAPIST: The first thing you said was that you were, I forget how you put it, subconsciously embarrassed or worried about -
CLIENT: Well it feels ridiculous to be upset over can my coworkers guess who I am based on my bookshelf? It’s supposed to be a silly little contest. But I don’t know just I guess it feels frivolous, because it is. Oh well it’s just your books, whatever, who cares, except that -
THERAPIST: So one or both of you [I mean] (ph) is going to be a little like your coworkers then and sort of imagine that you’re being kind of not really taking what’s going on with you seriously.
CLIENT: And part of it was Kelly wasn’t, like all the books are in the living room and she was on the sofa. And I’m sort of looking and fussing and she was annoyed that I was kind of walking around and doing things. And then when I described what it was she thought it was, that the contest ","P1-N400531":"was stupid. And then which I thought was really upsetting and she just said well it’s just stuff. That was her response like why do you care if people recognize your stuff. And then [inaudible at 00:13:46] came over and said I can have some suggestions but it just made me feel worse, not surprisingly. [00:13:55]
THERAPIST: Not surprisingly. Yes, sure. I can see a great fear in a way kind of like you’re the last to know.
CLIENT: Yes, I mean -
THERAPIST: And that [inaudible at 00:14:19] you’re describing to me the thing that sort of capped the shelfie is very much a part of this larger thing. [00:14:35]
CLIENT: Yes, and I feel like I don’t know, I guess I also feel like a lot of, not a lot, some of my coworkers kind of dismiss what I do or talk about [inaudible at 00:14:56] and feel like oh that’s just tacky stuff. So whereas if I was going on about I don’t know if there were document ","P1-N4005B1":"sources, they would say oh I don’t know. That’s her area; that’s her thing. But I don’t know. It feels like I don’t, it feels like I don’t know what people think my thing or my area is, is beyond your computer things. [00:15:30]
THERAPIST: I see, right, which is sort of gets you objectified.
CLIENT: Yes, and I just not interested in computers. Half of those people think I’m just alive. And I know some of my coworkers know about every science fiction and I don’t know. When I first had the job of doing computers before I used to, everyone would bribe me with candy because they ","P1-N4005F1":"thought it wouldn’t come otherwise or I would be slower or they would get me faster. And then they stopped doing it because they discovered I would fix the computer anyway. And also we changed libraries so the smaller group I had got merged into a larger group. [00:16:36]
THERAPIST: I, I’m not meaning to make this more positive than it was, but I am wondering if they also just appreciated it. In other words -
CLIENT: Yes. I mean I think it was a sign of it was a bribe slash appreciation. It kind of depended on the person and what it was. But yes, definitely if they were, if it was something extra, it would kind of like hmm I want that [inaudible at 00:17:15] Hershey’s chocolate for her that happens ","P1-N400631":"to be on my desk. Or when somebody brings [inaudible at 00:17:16], I love Smarties and she would always have a bowl, that’s interesting. [00:17:26]
THERAPIST: I guess I was struck because I, not to do it, but actually [they kind of do] (ph) that stuff. In that case is actually the way they did managed to find out or know something about you.
CLIENT: Yes they have people, well, yes when I fix someone’s computer I usually chat with them because we’re all stuck there. And so, or when they’re on the cuff (ph) with crossword books for a while -
THERAPIST: You mean like you do them while you’re waiting for reboots or -
CLIENT: I would hand them to the user. I wouldn’t do them, I’d hand them to the person if they were sitting there. I’d say I know this is boring; here’s a crossword. Or help me with this crossword. That’s usually what I’d say, help me with this crossword because ","P1-N4006B1":"and it was kind of fun. But, yes, I don’t do that anymore. I don’t know if anyone was, when I was doing it people definitely, most people thought it was kind of funny. [00:18:45]
THERAPIST: I’m sorry. You don’t feel like [inaudible at 00:20:16]? Yes, okay.
CLIENT: Yes, because I’m not part of the IT department.
THERAPIST: Yes, no big surprised. I didn’t [inaudible at 00:20:19].
CLIENT: I’m not part of IT, I’m not a librarian, I don’t do I’m not in the circulation staff pool. If the librarians, various people like to socialize after work and then I don’t get invited, which is, I think okay except it’s awkward when you talked about it and ","P1-N400771":"clearly didn’t think [00:21:02]
THERAPIST: Yes, you describing in so many ways that you’re excluded and isolated and because of not being part of the department, because I’m not being [inaudible at 00:21:11] socially, because I’m being treated like a computer robot. And also because everybody just not knowing what ","P1-N400791":"you’re interested in.
CLIENT: Yes, at a certain point I said I wanted to try to stop complaining so much about work at work. Which is okay except for if someone asks how my day is going I’m kind of saying okay. Or when people ask oh how is work going, I don’t really answer. I kind of say oh things are I’m ","P1-N4007B1":"trying not to -
THERAPIST: Come up with any words.
CLIENT: Yes, I say oh things are continuing. And I don’t know, I just don’t I go from feeling excited about and finding it’s a fun thing to do to feeling stressed and upset. [00:22:35]
THERAPIST: That’s very [inaudible at 00:23:24] to know.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean it wasn’t yes, I really hit something. I don’t know. I guess partially because it’s stuff I find fun and interesting and like to do. And it’s also like this is something like taking silly shelfies or doing whatever, is something I do with strangers on the ","P1-N400851":"Internet or people who I’ve never met in person. And it’s sad that someone I don’t really know who lives in Hawaii can definitely guess which books are mine much easier than [00:24:30]
THERAPIST: People who are down the hall?
CLIENT: Yes. [Pause] And the other stuff that I was thinking about on Tuesday is Cambridge’s dean is making another announcement about having strategic conversations about I don’t even know, stuff, to improve the library stuff again. And what I sort of wrote out for myself but did not send ","P1-N400891":"was I think the biggest improvement you could make is for us not, is to find a way to have us not be miserable. If you want staff to invest time in innovating or whatever, it would help if they weren’t having their soul crushed every day. [00:25:42]
THERAPIST: What sorts of things are these?
CLIENT: I think the thing was which I’ve been thinking of recently is workers do a, actually Cambridge is doing a fair use week where you talk about fair use. And which to my mind I thought oh people do these things called fan videos where they’ll take a TV show song and in particular an ","P1-N400971":"organization sometimes they’ll get copyright take-on notices. And this one particular group has, a fan video (ph) group has sort of helped people in lawsuits to say this is fair use; this is creative transformation. So I think that’s really interesting. And I think that could be an awesome ","P1-N400972":"job to have. [00:30:46]
THERAPIST: So, I mean actually I remember the other was you went to a seminar, at least you put it out there you being very interested in that you described or didn’t try to implement really anyway at Cambridge because you anticipated getting nowhere.
CLIENT: Oh yes, discussing online privacy and Google.
THERAPIST: It was that but it was something else too. I think it was somebody you went through in New York a few years ago? It was [00:32:06]
CLIENT: Oh yes, that was so depressing. Looking at [inaudible at 00:32:12] from an anthropological point of view.
THERAPIST: Yes. That wasn’t the depressing part, right, it was explaining your work? I think you’re really excited in the topic -
CLIENT: I was excited at the topic. What was disappointing was after Chet suggested HR, the image girl (ph) said we don’t think you should go. And it was this whole -
THERAPIST: Yes, it’s not right. Now we’re not going to pay for it.
CLIENT: And we’re not going to pay for it, it won’t be really fun. And the person they sent was a librarian who’s a nice person but doesn’t really know about the topic. And [inaudible at 00:32:53] trying to not be mad at her because it’s not her fault. But So they’re ","P1-N400A91":"having actually that person come to the library to speak and [00:33:11]
THERAPIST: The person who gave the seminar?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Not the attendee?
CLIENT: Yes, the person who gave the seminar. But it’s pitch for library staff, librarians, which I’m not and they’ve been having these brainstorming sessions which are very clearly are you a professional librarian? Do you have librarian in your job chart? If not, not very interested. ","P1-N400B11":"And I could go, it is possible for me to; I’m not going to be crashing something but it wouldn’t go anywhere. [00:34:05]
THERAPIST: Right. And also a sensibility, like you -
CLIENT: Oh yes, I was also miserable.
THERAPIST: Okay, so my point isn’t to bring up things that are miserable. I am aware that that is what I’m doing but the reason I mentioned it is because does those help?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I have more, I just so when you said that you had trouble picking your area of interest I guess I was surprised because I have heard you express interest and some follow-through and tremendous amounts of frustrations and disappointments around that. And I guess I know that it would be much ","P1-N400BB1":"better if you could say well I’m interested in this applied anthropological, blah, blah, blah, and I brought this back to guy [inaudible at 00:35:19], brought it back and we did all these things and it was awesome. Or because of and I had some input about this new room they were creating and ","P1-N400BB2":"they made these changes because we thought it would make blah, blah, blah instead of talking sort of about disappointment. [00:35:42]
CLIENT: Yes, I think it’s because they feel to me like none of these are things I feel like not like these are things I’m interested in but that I’ve never done as a job. Not never but I’m totally interested in accessibility and I’ve done that in my spare time but haven’t ","P1-N400BF1":"been able to do that at work or professionally. And part of why I keep on trying to do things, [inaudible at 00:36:48] like trying to do things at work or do things to that system is that it kind of ends up going when I tell someone this is an area, and they say something oh that’s something ","P1-N400BF2":"that you what have you, where have you done this? What have you [00:37:19]
THERAPIST: Well yes, actually one reason that I am thinking of leaving the library here is because what I did was this, what happened was that. You know I really felt like this could’ve made a difference but was not I guess my [inaudible at 00:37:39] really is that there’s something about ","P1-N400C11":"the hurt and other people’s not falling through honor in a way even like legitimizing your suggestions that seems like it’s almost makes you feel like they don’t count or they couldn’t be currency. Maybe I have it wrong. [00:38:16]
CLIENT: No, it’s true. I feel like I tried to do that pick. I sort of feel like well I tried to do that legitimately or professionally or whatever but failed to do so, so -
THERAPIST: That’s actually I’m actually kind of taking issue with you saying you failed to do so because [inaudible at 00:38:56] going to listen to you I’m not sure where your failure is. I mean in a way I get it, it failed to have an impact or effect, failed to make something happen ","P1-N400C51":"that you wanted to. [Pause] I don’t know but it just seems like a very biased way of describing what happened. [00:39:37]
CLIENT: Yes, I mean I -
THERAPIST: Or you’re saying it feels like a failure, fine. I’m not trying to argue out of how you feel about it, I’m just saying -
CLIENT: Yes, I mean I guess I do feel like it’s a no-winner. And sometimes it’s because someone would say why would someone not let you put up information of how [inaudible at 00:41:10] back in? That’s ridiculous. Yes, but the fact remains it didn’t happen. Or [00:41:20]
THERAPIST: What I vaguely remember of that one was that was like a sort of complex bureaucratic reason, right?
CLIENT: Yes. And right now I have created the signs and I’ve been waiting for someone to approve them or say they don’t need approval. So I’m just doo, doo, doo. And part of it is also that a couple projects are now part of this weird online advanced goal reporting form which I find ","P1-N400D11":"very, which is geared towards did you make, did you complete your goal or not which makes me feel even more like no. [00:42:25]
THERAPIST: My hunch is that as shitty as it feels to feel like you failed at these things, it in a way is less vulnerable than feeling you were sort of powerless and helpless and treated really unfairly or badly.
CLIENT: It also has an endpoint. In addition to feeling not wanting to say well I wasn’t able to do this for reasons I find mysterious or [00:43:20]
THERAPIST: Ridiculous.
CLIENT: ridiculous, whatever, I feel like they’re saying [fall back] (ph) I didn’t get that at Harvard; that did not work right while doing that. I don’t have to continue to try doing it because I tried, it didn’t work. It’s not this never-ending try it again, try to ","P1-N400D91":"rephrase it, try to whatever it.
THERAPIST: We should stop now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Are you okay?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Take care [inaudible at 00:44:28]?
CLIENT: Yes. [00:44:37]