TITLE: Client "Ju", Session January 14, 2014: Client discusses the difficulty of transitioning to a new medication, and generally feeling overwhelmed and pessimistic.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses the difficulty of transitioning to a new medication, and generally feeling overwhelmed and pessimistic.
CLIENT: So, I guess transitioning to new medication is still making me feel really crazy. Which sucks. And also, yesterday I just had this horrible blinding headache, and I left work early because I was just like, I can’t do anything. Also I was like, my head hurt, and I was feeling really snappish ","P1-N4000B1":"because my head hurt, and Dr. [inaudible] called me yesterday, and you know, bad headaches, headaches are one of the potential side effects which... I’m feeling very pessimistic about everything right now, I guess, is kind of the answer. Yeah. Which is not fun. Part of that is, along with regularly ","P1-N4000B2":"feeling really weepy, which has stopped, which is nice, I’d also been, apparently, feeling, just, like, really scared. I’m sitting at my desk doing, I don’t know, e-mail, and then I have that, like, fight or flight, but the flight part?
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah. Which also I really don’t like, because then it’s upsetting and then I can’t really do much other than kind of try not to feel scared, and wait.
THERAPIST: Does it differ from times you’ve felt panic?
CLIENT: Yeah. It’s more like... partly I just feel frustrated because it feels to me more like times that I feel like are PTSD related. It’s like, that kind of scared feeling.
THERAPIST: I see. Like [inaudible]’s around the corner.
CLIENT: Yeah. And additionally, she’s now taking the bus from the bus stop next to me, so that’s great.
THERAPIST: Yikes.
CLIENT: You only, I mean, it’s a terrible petty thing, but she really looks terrible, and that makes me feel good. Which, you know, it’s weird to think that the two times, no three times I’ve seen her around my bus stop, and I think now, I’m sure that she’s taking, like, ","P1-N4001F1":"one of the stops is her way home, which is one of the stops on my way home sometimes. I don’t really feel scared seeing her, but when I’m randomly feeling scared, it’s like the feeling I used to have when I saw her. So that’s also really, like, I don’t... It’s hard ","P1-N4001F2":"to know what to do to feel better because I don’t really I don’t know why I’m feeling scared, so... I just don’t know what to do half the time. I had made myself a couple of years ago, a weighted blanket. And then my cat puked on it and yeah. So getting the little plastic pellets ","P1-N4001F3":"to weight it is a pain because they’re heavy, and either you pay a lot for shipping or you’re hauling them around on your back, and it’s not really, blah. [inaudible] plunked down like $50 to get them, then came home and made half a blanket, and then got really frustrated and upset ","P1-N4001F4":"about the math not working out, of how to make it. On the other hand, I was also waking up during the night, like, I always wake up a little bit when my cat, it’s like, 3 am, he’s like “HELLO! I’m a cat!” but usually I can just like, pet her, or give her water or whatever, ","P1-N4001F5":"and fall back asleep. But I was having just, like, “I’m awake now!” or just not feeling sleepy at all. Taking Ambien and being like “Doo doo doo... can’t sleep”. Which then makes me really anxious, because I want to get to sleep. Then I just sort of sit there and ","P1-N4001F6":"do that. So even half a weighted blanket was still nice. I successfully slept for two days. Two nights. Yeah, it’s depressingly exciting. But also, it’s exciting and frustrating and there is a sci-fi convention this weekend in Manchester where I know probably at least a dozen or so people ","P1-N4001F7":"that I’m friends with are travelling to be there. So, got a hotel room, got a membership, whatever, whatever, but I did that all like, two months ago, and now I really don’t know if I want to go, because, like any convention, it’s noisy, it’s echo-y, people are crammed in, just ","P1-N4001F8":"on you because A) there’s not enough room, and also there will be a lot of people I don’t like. Like, conceptually don’t like, not individually don’t like.
THERAPIST: Sorry, what is that distinction?
CLIENT: Oh, it’s like not like, I’m thinking I hate these ten people, it’s more, I hate really sexist gamer guys. There will be 200 of them.
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. And so I’m not... I mean the answer is I don’t know. I kind of want to go anyway. I’m splitting a hotel room with a friend so it’s not as expensive, so I can go into the hotel room to get away from people, but I’m also like, why am I spending money to be annoyed? ","P1-N400291":"It’s hard, because all the socializing basically takes place near the hotel, which is the waterfront, which is this like, it’s really annoying to get to with all the transit. It involves, at some point, walking over a bridge. There’s the highway and you’re on a bridge and it’s ","P1-N400292":"just crap. Yeah. Don’t like it. So it’s by the waterfront. It’s not easy to get back and forth. So I don’t know. I guess I’m just worried about all of that and feeling really irritable and angry and
THERAPIST: And pessimistic and down?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And sometimes really scared, and yesterday was a splitting headache.
CLIENT: Yes, exactly. I don’t know. And I feel like I don’t have any way of knowing how I’m going to be feeling, except probably kind of cruddy. But seeing people not seeing everyone in town would make me feel super neurotic, and I’d feel like I was being left out [chuckles]. ","P1-N400331":"See the other problem? Not going will make me feel depressed and no one likes me all weekend, but going isn’t great either, and I...
CLIENT: The friend of mine that I’m sharing the hotel room with is, her name is Jen. She’s very nice. She lives near my parents, kind of randomly. I knew her for two years, and it somehow transpired that I’m like, “Wait a minute...” and my parents had seen her and her husband, ","P1-N400371":"because she is a very petite Asian American woman and he’s a very tall white guy, so they’re... and they had a new baby that they were always walking around in the stroller.
THERAPIST: When you say right near your parents, like -
CLIENT: I mean a ten-minute walk.
THERAPIST: within easy walking distance.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yes, and the house that they own, I’m pretty sure that someone I know used to live there, like brother’s friends or something. Yeah, it’s really...
THERAPIST: That is really funny.
CLIENT: Yeah, it’s ludicrous. Yeah. that’s definitely the closest that I’ve had someone be like, “Oh yeah.” Down the street. But she’s kind of closed off from her feelings, so she’s not someone that I could really, if I was feeling really freaked out, she’s ","P1-N400491":"not the person that I would be like, “Hey”. She also really doesn’t like being touched. Without asking, or even with asking. When she was pregnant, she didn’t want anyone to touch her stomach. There were some times when I was like... and I had to pull my hand back because we ","P1-N400492":"know each other well enough that I thought I was in tummy-touching territory, but no. So I’m a little concerned about sharing a bed, even though it’s a King. But we’ll see.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: She’s not [inaudible] anymore so maybe that’s a thing.
THERAPIST: I’d imagine if she has a new baby she’ll be sleeping pretty soundly.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: I imagine she’ll be sleeping soundly.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: If she’s been up every night with her baby and doesn’t have -
CLIENT: Yeah, she has a new one. She had a baby that’s now like, three, and she just popped out another one. So yeah. She mentioned being very excited that -
THERAPIST: Yeah, she’ll go to bed at eight. “My kid isn’t here, my husband isn’t here, good job. Good job”.
CLIENT: But it’s a little...
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah, it’s not... She’s not the ideal person for you for this weekend.
CLIENT: I’ve been thinking about it. There’s a way in which she kind of is, that she’ll give me all the emotional privacy I want. Which can be nice, so that’s good, but the other part where she can’t really provide emotional support is not ideal. And the other, the other ","P1-N400631":"big pessimism has been school, and finishing, or trying to finish. It’s typically bad timing, but I’m having this moment of “Why am I bothering doing this degree? No one will listen to my opinions, there’s unemployment in the field... blah blah blah”. I’ve wasted ","P1-N400632":"my time. Which I’m pretty sure I don’t solidly believe. I think if I talked to myself in four months, I’d be like, “It was a good choice”. But right now, I’m just blah. Especially since I’ve had such a series of annoying, frustrating work interactions that were ","P1-N400633":"basically, “Well, you’re not a librarian, so we don’t care what you think, because you’re not a librarian”. Including today, which was a staff meeting where someone had come to talk to all of us, but what she meant was, “I want to talk to librarians”. Which ","P1-N400634":"was everyone except me. Maybe one other person, but basically everyone else. And I was trying to not say anything during the meeting, which is always difficult for me, partially because I’m just like, “You don’t... I’m not a librarian so whatever I have to say is not really...”
THERAPIST: That’s why you’re trying not to say stuff?
CLIENT: There were sort of two things. One, I didn’t want to say anything because she did not actually ask for my input. And the other thing was that I didn’t want to get really annoyed and rip off someone’s head, which is how I felt Friday afternoon. Maybe that’s one of the ","P1-N400691":"reasons that I left, I was afraid this is not going to go well for anyone.
THERAPIST: You said you saw Dr. Cobb yesterday?
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And she wants you to keep trying this medicine?
CLIENT: We’re meeting Thursday for a longer discussion.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So far it’s not going so well.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I don’t know. It’s not going so well, and some of the things that I do, I’m not feeling really really weepy which is great, except I feel like crap.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think her thought is, this is a side-effect that’s going to ease off and go away, but I’m definitely not... it’s probably one of the more, most crappy psychiatric drug things I’ve done.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah, you sound more like, low in a sort of irritated, pessimistic way than you... It’s [inaudible] you’re sad or you’re upset about things, but the sort of ... I think it’s irritation somehow. It seems different.
CLIENT: Yeah, I definitely... it feels different. Yesterday, because I was just in such a... not having a good day, and then I feel bad that I’m not having a good day, and Ashby has to deal with me not being so... I apologize to her, I’m like, I’m really sorry I’m in such a bad ","P1-N400851":"mood, and then she kind of half laughed it off and was like, so you waited until like, 10 pm to apologize? I was like Well... I was really cranky [laughter]. Her comment was that she thought I was more... Like, I wasn’t angry at her but she felt that I was more petulant, which I was like, hm, ","P1-N400852":"it’s hard to say. She’s trying to do a January clean out the whole apartment re-do your life home thing, which is just not really working with my mood. So there’s also that. Which I think is where a lot of the petulance that she feels is from. But yeah, like last week I was, someone ","P1-N400853":"had not told me about a system I had to install so I had to like, last minute rush and then two thirds of the way through, someone was like “Actually you don’t have to do half of that, but you know, we’d need it eventually so I guess it’s not a waste of your time”. I’m ","P1-N400854":"like, yeah, fuck you. And then, he’s like, “Okay, I have to go get lunch” and I’m stuck there, no lunch, he’s not going to get me anything, and I’m upgrading all the software for him. And I was super angry about it, like, definitely more angry than irritated. The ","P1-N400855":"next day, too, another librarian was like “Hey, can you do this thing. It’s Thursday at four, can you upgrade all the software by Tuesday at two”. And I was pissed about that too.
THERAPIST: Yeah I guess it’s something that seems to be coming up a lot, pointlessness, thanklessness, whether it’s that work stuff you were just talking about, the convention this weekend which is supposed to be fun, and part of your worry is that it’s just not going to be, or that ","P1-N400891":"there’s going to be maybe too much in the way of that, or the medicine that’s supposed to make you feel better, or the degree.
CLIENT: Yeah, and I already got super annoyed at someone that I like. [inaudible] to do something. Nope, can’t do it. Here’s my suggestion, and she’s like, “Nope, that’s a stupid suggestion”. Blah blah blah. And I was just pissed. Even though she didn’t actually ","P1-N4008B1":"say it was a stupid suggestion, but you know. I just was really mad at her. I think the other thing which is I feel like the more competent I am at work, the more insanely demanding people are, because I tell everyone I want a week’s notice for installing whatever. But they also all know from ","P1-N4008B2":"it happening, that if they’re really last minute and forget, I can usually make something happen. So this staff meeting today, someone was talking about how ideally, you shouldn’t even, like, ideally the librarian helping you with your research or doing whatever is kind of invisible. They’re ","P1-N4008B3":"helping you learn how to help yourself, and so you end up being like “Oh yes I have mysterious extra knowledge! So strange!”, and they’re creating guides for you and all this other stuff, and it really means that, you know, people don’t appreciate or realize how much work we ","P1-N4008B4":"do. And I really had to stifle down this, “Yeah. Now maybe you appreciate what I do for you, and half the time when I do it you criticize me anyway, so meh.” I did. Because I was fairly sure that was a bad idea. A couple, I don’t know, I managed to score a meeting with someone from ","P1-N4008B5":"Disability Services about specifically my library, which I was totally excited about.
THERAPIST: Sorry, about what?
CLIENT: About accessibility, and also marking the bathrooms. And it was this really depressing conversation where the disability coordinator was like, “You need to stop thinking of solutions”. She’s like “You just need to identify the problem and not try to think about ways to ","P1-N400911":"fix it”. I don’t understand why I would do that, and her, she didn’t really explain that, but whatever. I guess all she wanted me to tell her was just the facts. And it had to be affecting a current patron, otherwise it wasn’t a problem. Her comment was, “Well, if we fix ","P1-N400912":"an accessibility problem in the bathroom, if we even look at it, then the whole building has to be addressed. Like at this point the whole building has to be brought up to code and that’s not possible.” That doesn’t seem to make sense at all, and I don’t know, I just... it was ","P1-N400913":"just a very, it was very depressing to have her be like “Yeah, we’re not going to do that, we’re not going to do that. Yeah, we don’t want to do that,” and also I felt very condescended towards. I was the person who contacted her [inaudible] dah dah dah. Then she comes ","P1-N400914":"and is like “I’m really glad you’re interested in accessibility, but you have to understand that some of these are just guidelines, not the law. And you know, if it’s not required by law...” I’m like, oh my God. I know that, but I don’t think that a lawsuit ","P1-N400915":"should be our guiding principle. At sort of the end of the meeting, other people got action items, and I got none. Which was, I don’t know, just like... I guess that was vaguely insulting and frustrating, because... the end game I want is better accessibility. The way they’re going to do ","P1-N400916":"that, she mostly shot down, and wasn’t actually interested in anything I had. She went and talked to the two other people at the meeting. Not me. And it just really sucks, especially as I set it as an achievable work goal, and now I have to re-do that, because... I can’t achieve it because ","P1-N400917":"I don’t know.
CLIENT: I think part of the other thing is that so, everyone’s understaffed, and people often talk about “Oh, yeah, they’re having free time, I would do X, Y, and Z”. I am actually not busy every hour of the day. Not at all. But I feel incapable of getting work to do that. I ","P1-N400951":"would like to do more work. I would like to do more things for the library or more things for my department, but I keep on getting told no, or there’s forty bazillion barriers up, and I feel really guilty and crappy that other people are feeling huge pressure, time pressure, and I’m not, ","P1-N400952":"but I’m also like, well, I don’t know what I can do to change that. And I do try to volunteer to help people with things, if someone sounds like they’re really stressed, but in the end, I don’t know. My little Cambridge brain, or big Harvard brain, and various computer skills ","P1-N400953":"are just not doing anything. Running software updates, and that’s it.
CLIENT: I think that also right now I’m definitely feeling like I’m super uninterested. There might have been a time to tell people but right now I’m just like “eh”. Don’t feel like it. Why should I take on an extra, why should I help someone out with their task or ","P1-N400991":"take on an extra duty or...
THERAPIST: There’s something that’s kind of hard as you are talking, from feeling down, irritated, pessimistic, at the beginning of the hour to now really seeming much more shut down, I think. I’m not saying that those are wildly different, but there seems to be a progression isn’t ","P1-N4009B1":"quite the right word, but movement.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I feel like, I do feel shut down on, like, kind of doing anything, or like...
THERAPIST: It’s like the people you’re talking about are more impossible or implacable, if things were a little more workable... it’s like you’re just sort of affecting different... it’s not like it was real [inaudible] but it seems like, lower and flatter.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, the more I think about or talk about it, I’m kind of the... not the worst that I feel, really, but I feel more distant. Like emotionally distant, I feel from...
THERAPIST: I wonder if, just talking about it is making you feel more helpless about all of it, and more overwhelmed, and also that I haven’t done or said anything to make it feel more workable or more manageable. I’m not saying you imagined I was going to have ten strategies for you, but ","P1-N400A51":"more like, sort of somewhere maybe there was a wish or something that I or somebody could help you to snap out of it, or say something to make it seem less overwhelming or smaller or...What about this or what about that?
CLIENT: Yeah, because right now it’s like I definitely have times where I know I’d really really like her suggestion so that I can X Y and Z. And right now I feel like, no, I don’t. Actually I guess I feel like there’s just nothing I can do. At one point a couple of months ago ","P1-N400A91":"I thought “Maybe for two hours a day, or every Thursday or whatever, I’ll concentrate on reading librarian blogs or updating Wikipedia to kind of keep my skills up. And now I’m just like, “Whatever, who cares”. Like, you know, I feel like regardless, I have existing skills ","P1-N400A92":"which are being ignored, so gaining more skills to be ignored, why should I do that? And as far as Wikipedia goes, I actually am not...
THERAPIST: Is this writing entries, or...?
CLIENT: Editing entries and like, copyediting, and like fixing the entries. Or joining, becoming someone interested in the Wikipedia community and joining it. Because actually I’m not that interested in Wiki, so I think they’re kind of like, “Whatever”. They’re definitely ","P1-N400AF1":"a library buzzword, which, sure. It’s a skill that some people think is relevant, and I’m just not interested in doing that for I guess resume purposes or for the purpose of saying, “Oh yeah. I edited a hundred Wikipedia articles”.
THERAPIST: Are you feeling beat down by all of this?
CLIENT: I think beat down is too much. It’s too emotional, in a way. I guess I feel kind of, like, stuck and hopeless. Like it’s just not ... And unable to, sometimes I can convince myself that I’ll feel better when it’s not winter, which is usually true. But that doesn’t ","P1-N400B51":"feel like a possibility right now. I don’t really see, I just don’t see anything improving. Yeah, like... I feel like if I do something or didn’t do something, either way, nothing would... it’s just not going to get better. It’s going to suck. One of my friends had suggested ","P1-N400B52":"that I start doing therapy twice a week again, and my thought was, that’s just going to depress me more. Because I don’t feel like I’m in the moment of figuring things out, or coming to terms with something. I just feel like another day of talking about how I feel depressed and hopeless ","P1-N400B53":"and pessimistic sounds really crappy. I don’t want to do that.
THERAPIST: A way that it might help is, probably it’s a little more contained, you leave it here a little bit. I’m not saying I know it would be like that.
CLIENT: Yeah, the pessimistic part of me is just like, “Nope, it would be an extra hour of feeling crappy”. So that’s kind of what’s happening. Which is tough.