TITLE: Client "Ju", Session November 26, 2013: Client discusses spending time with her family recently and the awkwardness of hearing them fight about infertility issues. Client is stressed about work and discusses trying to get some time off.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses spending time with her family recently and the awkwardness of hearing them fight about infertility issues. Client is stressed about work and discusses trying to get some time off.
THERAPIST: Hello.
CLIENT: I'm feeling a lot better than [last time] (ph).
THERAPIST: Oh good.
CLIENT: Yes. I guess the last two weeks.
THERAPIST: Good. Yes, I don't know much about last week but I do seem to remember how you were feeling two weeks ago and -
CLIENT: Yes. Just that was the whole week plus. Yes, basically [inaudible at 00:00:32] that whole week just really upset and on edge and just freaking out all day, which, yes was really hard. I just I mean it was very frustrating. And so the actual tour went off pretty well. There were some minor ","P1-N400151":"glitches, which was mostly that I hadn't talked with the people who were presenting I hadn't talked to at all about what I was showing. So I was trying to kind of think all right let me make this sort of be like what you're talking about. So it was okay. And what no one had realized until the tour ","P1-N400152":"group showed up is that most of the tour group didn't speak English and they had a translator, which was good except it made the experience very odd because you would talk about something and they would sort of stare at you. And we'd just pause because they would translate after; it wouldn't sound [inaudible ","P1-N400153":"at 00:01:51] translated. So that was weird. [00:01:54]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: [Laughs] It was that climate in which is definitely a nice, a good choice. You did not forget at work today so that's great. But yes, I don't know, I just felt weirdly guilty. [Pause] Yes, I don't know. It was weird. It took me a while to call her, to return her call, and it just, I don't know. ","P1-N400211":"I guess I felt like she was going to, I guess chastise me or say don't you think [inaudible at 00:08:33]? Like that was I don't know. I just really felt like I had screwed up somehow. I mean also when I was visiting I stayed with my brother for one night and I was really neurotic about, I was just ","P1-N400212":"super worried that I was imposing because I didn't even a week's notice and just said I'm showing up. [00:09:04]
THERAPIST: Right, and it was why not take a trip or something.
CLIENT: Yes, and I remembered I talk to her when they first got married and she said oh yes, I wouldn't do I'm not going to spend a lot of money for fertility treatments. That's kind of crazy. I think I would pay for whatever insurance would pay for. And then I talked to her again and I remember my ","P1-N400271":"brother said yes, she's gotten pregnant again but we're not sure whether it's going to go, and she miscarried again. Yes. [00:10:13]
THERAPIST: Just recently?
CLIENT: Yes, in the last six months. And they had to do fertility treatments. So what reaching (ph) out in this argument was that Tricia said I gave you two pregnancies in a year or in 18 months, and I said all right, that's a lot, good job. Just kind of overwhelming and Michael was, I don't know, he ","P1-N4002B1":"just felt bad that he's 41 or 42 and doesn't have kids and doesn't, you know he does not have he wasn't really bothered by not owning a house but he was feeling like he'd missed out, like he'd done something wrong by not having kids already. [00:11:03]
THERAPIST: How old is she?
CLIENT: She looks like she's my age, so she's late 30s, which is a geriatric conception. It's weird but -
THERAPIST: That's not usual these days, but yes.
CLIENT: Yes, so she's in [inaudible at 00:12:42] which is probably why she's been [dammit I need success] (ph). But it was also weird to have part of the discussion include them arguing about their sex life a little bit, which I wasn't quite ready for. And then in the middle they said sorry Karen, this ","P1-N400351":"is just happening. I said okay, because we have a hard time being romantic when Michael's really stressed and blah, blah, blah. But I don't know. He was very down on himself about having spent time in a job he didn't like, having spent a chunk of time dealing with mental health problems, a couple years ","P1-N400352":"on that, and I don't know. He's never really, Michael doesn't really talk about his feelings a lot and he rarely has talked about, he's almost never talked to me about how he felt having to live with my parents for two years or other things. [00:13:59]
THERAPIST: I [inaudible at 00:15:46] what you're talking about of people coming together in a way that is not as productive as it could be and leaves one person very much let down. I'm thinking of what you just said about talking to Michael and the two of them don't have kids and the tendency (ph) about ","P1-N400391":"you and Dad. [00:16:19].
CLIENT: Yes. [Pause] I mean, I remember really situations where they've let me down on that and [pause] -
THERAPIST: Yes, I could imagine Michael thinking Tricia let him down or -
CLIENT: No, he was, I mean -
THERAPIST: really Dad wasn't feeling let down, although that does give her ideas.
CLIENT: Yes -
THERAPIST: In a way.
CLIENT: No it was. It was very, it was such a I'm still kind of thinking about it was very [inaudible at 00:17:10] both weirdly guilt-ridden. I mean usually I'm always telling the doctor the reason I don't, I don't want to discuss, I don't want to explain this problem that I'm having again or I don't ","P1-N400471":"want to deal with scheduling an appointment. But he leaned on me to just listen to the phone call and that we'd already talked about it, I still was just completely just stressed about it. Although it probably doesn't help that in the midst of all of this I've been trying to call Dad and failing to ","P1-N400472":"do so. I'm really worried about it. I went into my doctor because -
THERAPIST: Your PCP? [00:17:58]
CLIENT: Yes. I actually, yes, PCP, Urgent Care, because of first the bump on my eye. I woke up and my eye was horribly red, like [bean poles] (ph). I said okay let's make sure this is just fine. So I didn't see my regular PCP I saw whoever was there and unfortunately it ended up being a nurse practitioner ","P1-N4004B1":"and a doctor who I had seen before that I really dislike because they're both really fixated on my weight as being everything. So that's basically all they want to talk about during the appointment, none of them were very I said well my eye really hurts and it's gross. And -
THERAPIST: And it's why I'm here.
CLIENT: Yes, and no, they wanted to discuss my blood pressure, birth control pills, how I should exercise more, I was [inaudible at 00:18:56] too many processed foods and it's just ugh. It was basically like not quite but like my nightmare or memory of doctor's appointment is always that it's going ","P1-N4004F1":"to be that appointment and it really was. [00:19:25] [Pause]
THERAPIST: Yes. That's another one. Like it could be, it was supposed to be a constructive conversation where you're in with a doctor and they say you're fine, or you're mostly fine, take these eye drops, or whatever they would say.
CLIENT: Yes, I was expecting a discussion about my eyes and yes, not -
THERAPIST: Probably [inaudible at 00:20:07] things.
CLIENT: Yes, and I'm still not sure that what they said was right but -
THERAPIST: About your eyes you think?
CLIENT: Yes. I actually woke up the other day with pus in my eye and it was beyond crusty, and I said oh, maybe they were wrong. Who knows? But that was the only one that really, where my worries came to pass. And it also reminded me why I really don't go to urgent care; I just try to make an appointment ","P1-N4005B1":"because my regular PCP doesn't do that. And yes, you guys know what's happening. I also was thinking ugh, this is what comes of not being married to a doctor. But with my brother and Dad I'm just, I don't know. Even when I was talking to my Dad I was still kind of, I was feeling just I don't know. I ","P1-N4005B2":"felt worried and anxious for the first chunk of the conversation, like I felt like almost like I was admitting to that behavior or having done something wrong as opposed to telling her how I felt. [00:21:40] [Pause]
THERAPIST: All right?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: It reminds you a little of your mom too, doesn't it? It's like mostly an infraction for her?
CLIENT: Yes. And, yes. I mean, yes, and basically sickness is an infraction and also you probably shouldn't be taking my mom both won't take, often won't take whatever she's prescribed but everyone else should take what they're prescribed. That's been my problem [inaudible at 00:22:33]. Anyhow, I'm ","P1-N400631":"not looking forward to Thanksgiving. I was trying to reward them for not losing their mind last year when I didn't go home, which, I mean it keeps happening. Hopefully the weather will be okay and everything. But it's definitely not something I'm looking forward to. [00:23:08]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I guess not really arguing exactly but discussing having kids as opposed to unilaterally just either having kids or adopting. The fact that they disagree at all as a married couple is worrisome to her. But I know for me I felt like my brother's a human being and so is Tricia and that's kind ","P1-N4006B1":"of going to happen. And if she's had three miscarriages, that's a lot and I can understand why she's feeling frustrated. Although oddly that he was saying that I should if I want to have a kid I should try to have one soon because my eggs are getting old. [Laughs] Which is, she seemed pretty concerned ","P1-N4006B2":"about it and I feel like I'm not definitely done with [my productive] (ph) system, I don't know what I would do with a kid right now. There's no one I want to have it with and I [inaudible at 00:26:33] that's just not what I want to do right now is having a kid. It's pretty odd for him to be concerned ","P1-N4006B3":"about it. [00:26:45]
THERAPIST: Yes. Kind of out of left field.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes. This would actually [inaudible at 00:26:54] an e-mail, which again I think you know I'm not dating anyone and I'm not baby crazy; I like them but I'm not going to just single-mom it out. [Pause] I'm also wishing there's a way around having Chet just be frustrating, disappointing at ","P1-N4006F1":"work. It's kind of, he's hard to avoid because he's sitting across from me and his main manager, so there's that but [00:28:12]
THERAPIST: Sorry, can you back that up a little bit? I was stuck by [inaudible at 00:28:20]. You said it's hard to wait. What was Chet? I'm sorry.
CLIENT: So no, no that's fine. The back-up is, so when I try to ask Chet for sense or support, he pretty much always no. I've been trying to think of ways to not, just sort of being at work and not just be continually frustrated by him but there's also sharing the same office and having him be my ","P1-N400731":"manager makes it tough to avoid the person that's right there. [00:29:04]
THERAPIST: Oh yes. I think depending on how much is being promised I think I mean because of having [inaudible at 00:29:24] query, I think you generally or at least you so often have the experience of people especially people who have some authority but also friends, sometimes where they have absolutely ","P1-N400751":"no room for what is going on with you and then are totally intrusive and controlling, I think. I mean, the doctor visit you did have I think is a good example and pretty much everything Chet does is probably at least with you, I think is an example of that. It's hard to imagine that otherwise I'm sure ","P1-N400752":"[inaudible at 00:30:17] is you anticipate she's going to be the same way; that she's going to have no room for your kind of hard time; that's startling, and worried and upset and overwhelmed and there was going to be all about how you shouldn't have been doing X, Y or Z differently or you should be ","P1-N400753":"calling her or you should be bucking up or [00:30:42]
CLIENT: Yes and they, I really -
THERAPIST: Stuff that sort of really gets frightening [inaudible at 00:30:46] telling you how you should be.
CLIENT: Yes, and I don't want to approach, I don't want to start I don't like just having that feeling of oh they're going to, this person's going to fail me again. I want to turn that off at the depot but [pause] I guess it's harder to me, it harder to turn it off at the depot when like I'm at work ","P1-N4007B1":"every day and the majority of my time, conscious time, is spent working; it's not supportive and frustrating and school's really disappointing and frustrating. So it's hard, it feels really hard not to. But I also don't want to just, I don't want to ever think of blame and I don't want to, if I'm talking ","P1-N4007B2":"to someone, instantly shoot down everything they say. But on the other hand a lot of my work problems people give me suggestions and I say I've already did that, I've already did that or that's not going to work for this reason. And I will, I will feel kind of odd because they're just trying to be helpful ","P1-N4007B3":"and all I'm saying is no, no, no. [00:32:39]
THERAPIST: Well it seems it seems a little different to me in that my sense of your, how it feels to you when that happens in situations like that that you've told me about is that the other person is really not kind of seriously taking you into account. I mean for example if it's a technical problem ","P1-N4007D1":"or another work problem they come up with things that are, at least the way you related to me, not so far from what you've tried plugging and plugging it in again, which yes I can see how in a way that's trying to be helpful and you'd like to not be so frustrated with them for that. But in another way ","P1-N4007D2":"it seems to me he really doesn't take you seriously. I don't mean they're just being patronizing I mean they're forgetting that you do that for a living, that you bring that to your work or other things are going on at work. [00:33:52]
CLIENT: Yes, I mean I think of all the horrifically crappy situations that I'm sort of patient with them with, all right, let's talk it out, whatever, and yes I think those situations are a lot of those situations you are suggesting well I don't know if you've met me but I don't really want to try all that.
THERAPIST: Yes, but I would expect it would make a difference, I think it would make probably a huge difference, if the response you got even if the person didn't have suggestions for you was to appreciate what's actually going on. I don't mean they have to be super-empathic but at least communicative ","P1-N400811":"and willing to take seriously what haven't we tried. [00:34:57]
CLIENT: Yes. I feel like what ends up happening is extra points on me well surely that can't happen. Why would someone tell you to do the opposite of what makes sense? I don't know but they did. Or they say oh I'm sure if you just talk to them, yes, I already did. And they say well, no, but I mean really ","P1-N400831":"if you just and at that point I start feeling like is there a reason why you don't believe what I'm saying? [Pause] Yes, I mean, I'd say yes I've tried all the things you are supposed to try. For a while people were asking when Chet was complaining about me saying which [inaudible at 00:36:04] to ","P1-N400832":"put the desk or his assistant said well what is that based on? Nothing. Well why is he complaining? I said yes, exactly. [Laughs] What do you want me to add except that yes, that's ridiculous. But I didn't have any word. That's not really that hard; there's nothing, there's basically nothing more I ","P1-N400833":"can do with that but yes, okay. [00:36:40] [Pause]
THERAPIST: We should finish up. [inaudible at 00:43:29]
CLIENT: Okay. I guess basically I know we're gone for Thanksgiving and I really would like his compliments or help at work but I'm just not getting it [inaudible at 00:44:02].
THERAPIST: And to me, again, the feel of it is nothing kind of constructive or good or productive happening. It's more just kind of sort of flat, kind of there's-nobody-out-there-to-really-reach kind of feeling.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Good luck over Thanksgiving.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: I mean certainly I cannot prescribe [inaudible at 00:44:49] or things like that but if you have enough time and need to talk with me give me a call.
CLIENT: Thank you. I appreciate that. [00:45:05]