TITLE: Client "Ju", Session July 30, 2014: Client discusses difficulty dealing with a past relationship breakup and ex.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses difficulty dealing with a past relationship breakup and ex.
CLIENT: I think I just screwed up when I was writing. So is the 13th or the 6th that we’re doing on [inaudible – 00:19]? Okay. Let me try that one more time. Sorry. And also…I had had a lot of frustrations this week that I’m also aware that I’m using to distract myself ","P1-N4000B1":"from other problems. I’m virtually; so I’m going to delete and go back to 15th. [Silence.]
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: Yeah. Which is slowing me…weirdly, for some reason, I didn’t think it would slow me down as much as I thought…it is. I got a ride to work on…it’s just a band-aid and just now a cloth on it also. The Nurse Practitioner was like, oh, you did like a great job cleaning ","P1-N400111":"the wound. It’s healing really well. Just keep a band-aid on it. I’m like okay. It sounds great. And then today I’ve just been like ouch. Like my foot just really hurts.
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: I think I convinced myself it didn’t hurt yesterday or something. Okay, I’m just like everything is taking longer. And it’s just very classic stupid thing where something super simple like having a clean fridge has turned in to a debacle of like miscommunication and I don’t ","P1-N400151":"even know what.
THERAPIST: I’m sorry. What kind of puppy?
CLIENT: I’ve seen her give Labrador puppy, or you know when those puppy would like falls over [inaudible – 04:01].
THERAPIST: Okay, yeah.
CLIENT: Like he means well, but; yeah, [inaudible – 04:08] would understand people very well yet, even though he’s probably like 30.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So yeah. And I’d had…so there is going to be an all-day event this Saturday at the summer cottage of one of the owners of Manhunt, which is one of the premier gay hook up sites. Several people I know work there. Where [inaudible – 04:50] and his pool boy. It’s kind of ","P1-N400271":"weird, but okay.
THERAPIST: its pool [inaudible – 05:00] will be?
CLIENT: Like he has a pool boy who will be there to deal with the pool if there are any problems. And he has a caretaker along with the pool boy.
THERAPIST: Funny, because like the pool boy try to [inaudible – 05:14].
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. I’m like you really got a pool boy? Fuck. And you know he has peacocks roaming.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: It’s not really a cottage; it’s actually a huge house.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess Manhunt is doing pretty well.
CLIENT: Manhunt is making a shit ton of money. And like I think it still may be privately owned. And like the two guys how came up with it have ridiculous tons of money. And so I had said to…I didn’t want to; I wasn’t sure I wanted to go because I didn’t want to…I wasn’t ","P1-N4003B1":"feeling like being in a place with a lot of sexual energy or a lot of kink energy. I just kind of wanted to chill. And everyone was like, well you know, actually it’s a big place. You could totally just sit by the pool and read and no one is doing anything sexy outside. So if you were going to ","P1-N4003B2":"just chill outside all day, you know, you’d be fine. I can take care of land – blah, blah, blah. I was like yeah; that does sound good. I like pools.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And then [inaudible – 06:40] this weekend opens and [inaudible – 06:43] RSVP’d to that. And it’s such short notice that I can’t like…it’s hard for me to even think about it because I’m like…but Saturday is like in a couple of days. And I ","P1-N400411":"would like, you know, a month to think about this. I don’t even know. And the event has to be…you have to drive to it. So…
THERAPIST: You said [inaudible – 07:30].
CLIENT: It’s on the [inaudible – 07:31].
THERAPIST: I [inaudible – 07:34].
CLIENT: It would make since, but it’s far closer.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So she didn’t get to drive which I don’t trust Josie to not to be like respectful of me or anything. Like would she make out with her new partner in front of me? Yes, she’s already done that. So I am like…when I think about it, like dots when I think about it. It’s ","P1-N4004D1":"like the variety of horrible things she’s done – first breakup and just how just disrespectful and awful she’s been. And I feel like she was having like this sort of moment of feeling more okay about it. Like when she crossed the street ahead of me because she’s never done that ","P1-N4004D2":"before, and I was really like, oh. And I think if the party had happened that weekend I would have been like, yeah, fuck her. I’m going to go to the party.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: [Silence.] I also…I don’t know. Like one thing I was thinking that I hadn’t thought before is I really hate that it’s the…it feels the way like she’s still controlling me. Like she’s controlling my actions and I don’t like that feeling at all. ","P1-N400551":"And the other thing is I start to think like she is a very manipulative person. Is she manipulating me? Is she being manipulative and hurtful? Does she just not give a fuck? Like… [Silence.]…I guess kind of everything I feel about it ends up like…
THERAPIST: I guess you’re still more [inaudible – 11:54].
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That’s horrible.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You’re her daughter and she’s saying I don’t need a…I didn’t want to hear from you.
CLIENT: Yeah. And she also invited me to spend my dad’s birthday with them. She had me a hotel room in New York. And I haven’t yet gotten myself together to say no, no, no, no, no. You know. Also because I’m just sort of like I feel so overwhelmed by like all of this that I don’t…I ","P1-N400691":"don’t know. I feel like I kind of…I can’t [inaudible – 14:38] both sides and that I would really like something to not be traumatic so I could deal with other things being traumatic. But instead, everything is.
THERAPIST: I see. It’s all kind of hitting you from all sides.
CLIENT: Yeah. And it’s, I mean. Like what I was thinking this weekend, I was like I really want a friend of mine who is really calm and chilled to just come over and sit like next to me on the sofa and we can just read a book or like they can sit on my bed and I can fold some laundry. But by then ","P1-N4006F1":"I was feeling pretty neurotic about if I asked someone would they think I’m being like asking too much or blah, blah, blah. And then Ashby was getting really upset about messiness. And it’s like you can’t have someone come over because it’s just too messy, which made me feel ","P1-N4006F2":"worse. And like it’s hard because she’s also…she’s tapering off some of her medications. So all of us having a grand fun time.
THERAPIST: I see. Her psychiatric medication.
CLIENT: Yeah, she stopped seeing her regular therapist. She’s doing group therapy weekly and is tapering off either one or two of her psychiatric medications. So really it’s a really fun, mental time in our household. And I suggested that we try to have like a spring house warming…or ","P1-N400731":"a fall. Like it’s fall. We’ve turned over a new leaf. Hopefully we’re all a little less crazy. Come over to our house. We’ll see how that’s going to work.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It’s not good. [Silence.] Yeah. [Silence.]
THERAPIST: I guess uh… [Silence.] Okay, so I’m wondering if there is also like a communication in what you have described to me, what you described. Really it’s laid out and then there’s like a qualification. But so from what you described this stuff with Josie and how I think, ","P1-N4007D1":"really, sort of a; well…you can’t really think about what you want to do this weekend because that’s too much. And you seem both upset about how she’s been disrespectful and also how scared I think you are that she can be again, and also how frustrating it is what you would miss ","P1-N4007D2":"out on by not going or by not having her go or because it’s just having [inaudible – 20:50] this stuff.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think. I feel like in like the time that I was here in therapy that you have been helpful in helping me sort of get some grips on what happened with Josie. And I think what it is or is part of is like right now I’m frustrated because I had been feeling like yeah; this shit’s ","P1-N4008D1":"kind of in the past. I’m doing kind of okay. Like I was feeling like yeah, this is good. Like not good, but like whatever.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then seeing her at the bus stop and then this happening; whoops. I think what’s probably frustrating is I feel like but we did all this stuff and it did something and I felt better, and then seeing her at a movie theater made me lose my shit. And you know, like I hate it. And I also ","P1-N400911":"I think – I guess I’m saying this – I have been feeling like generally less scared and panicked about both of us being out of kink with that. And I am so pissed that for like, you know, reasons which I kind of live by at like parents, those bombings, everything just feels really tender ","P1-N400912":"and scary. And like…I mean part of it is also that like what I really want is the friendship I had with Zoe like 15 years ago. Like 15 years ago Zoe, [inaudible 26:41] hang out, which is impossible. And I want like a hypothetical mother that I do not have to like take me away for a weekend or ","P1-N400913":"like get mani\/pedis or something. I don’t even know.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And [silence]…and yeah, I guess I feel like nothing is going right. That’s not really true, but… [Silence.] Like I kind of want to feel successful at something. And so this morning, I did these three work things. I was like I feel very successful. I have done these three things ","P1-N400991":"by noon for job stuff. And one of them was try to talk to two different managers about an employee who insists on storing like meal ingredients in a gross moldy bag in the fridge and cooking them in the break room fridge, which his revolting. And we got a new fridge and a new policy about cleaning the ","P1-N400992":"fridge. And the employee had a gross stinky bag of…kind of gross, screamed at one of the custodians, screamed at one of the staff members…like roared at one of the staff members. And flipped his shit and said he was refusing to abide by the policy. He was not going to allow anyone to dah, ","P1-N400993":"dah, dah, dah. I’m like what the fuck?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I talked to Laura’s manager. I was like hey. This is the thing. And it was like, he’s really unpredictable and he makes me uncomfortable and I am really worried that he’s going to flip his shit the next time the fridge is cleaned. And sort of like a…just a heads up.
THERAPIST: [inaudible – 32:47] you just said the first about a lot of things, but among them, sort of [inaudible – 32:56] me and how this has been helpful for dealing with Josie. That kind of what you’re saying now. The feeling is of like good and supportive things eroding. Like it ","P1-N400A71":"seems to me you’re partly wanting to let me know how you feel otherwise about this. Probably because that’s how you feel, but partly because you’re like, no, this has actually been good. Let’s kind of hold on to that as such, you know. Don’t think otherwise because it’s ","P1-N400A72":"actually very reassuring right now. And I think similarly like so the work that like it was that same kind of undermining where you had felt good about it and felt, go self, and then it all like a somewhat fell apart. And like the reassurance you got from it was gone or much less anyway.
CLIENT: I wouldn’t say gone. I’m just like…because part of what I was feeling was like I can communicate well, kind of. And then I’m like except that whatever I communicated is not…and I’m not hearing about the policy. Only certain staff are hearing about policy changes. ","P1-N400A91":"And I’m just like I guess rationally I know like I do communicate your permission in a clear way and it…what stupid stuff you did with it or whatever is not my fault or responsibility. But I also feel like so now I’m responsible because I said something about it tonight.
THERAPIST: I mean some of your [inaudible – 35:04] also to do with things in the world, not just that you done going well. You know part of the reason you were feeling good was because of how you handled things. But I think it’s also for feeling that they had just gone well. See what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, I mean Ashby and I had this conversation like what makes you feel like a grown up at work? Like, instead of like, you know, impostricated. And one of the things is giving someone a compliment on what they do and having it be like meaningful because you or someone who like…your ","P1-N400AF1":"opinion matters and you understand what their job is and you’re like wow; the [inaudible – 36:01] that specific two things you did were really great. I really appreciate that. And like being in the position where you can say that and knowing enough to say that. Having the social intelligence ","P1-N400AF2":"to know how to do that. And I was like yeah; that’s really true. It is that experience of like going to someone and saying, hey, I have an opinion and that opinion being significant is nice and feels like oh, I’m accepted as a person. And I had felt that because my initial encounters were…they ","P1-N400AF3":"weren’t dismissive.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: A distinct non-grown up.
THERAPIST: We can stop. I guess we’ll talk more on Tuesday.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You have to tell me if you want Mondays back.
CLIENT: Okay.