TITLE: Client "Ju", Session July 09, 2013: Client discusses relationship-related PTSD and being multiracial.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses relationship-related PTSD and being multiracial.
CLIENT: This sounds odd, but I’m kind of feeling over therapized. I don’t know if that makes sense. But I’m not actually sure.
THERAPIST: Meaning like?
CLIENT: I don’t know. I’m finding myself with a…I’m finding myself really emotionally exhausted.
THERAPIST: A lot? Considerably?
CLIENT: Well, [inaudible – 00:46] sometimes. But sometimes self-therapy helps and I don’t know. Like I don’t know like if I don’t want to like talk about dealing with some things or if I want to meet less frequently for a while or what.
THERAPIST: I get it.
CLIENT: With the, you know, of course always, or I just want to avoid dealing with myself.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Which is always an option. I don’t know. Like I was thinking about this a little bit. Like you know [inaudible – 01:34] go and then I use the…I sort of say like no, I think; like I like meeting frequently, but right now I don’t know. And it’s not like meeting frequently ","P1-N4001B1":"for some of that, but I don’t know. I guess it’s because…I think what I want is some relief from…I just don’t want to have to deal with or think about like difficult stuff, like…like one of the things I hated about [inaudible – 03:00] out was feeling like but ","P1-N4001B2":"I don’t want to do this again. Like I don’t know. I felt like but I’ve already talked about that a lot and it’s really hard and I don’t want to like go back to square one of that. But then I saw her again and [inaudible – 03:30]. I think that was more circumstantial.
THERAPIST: This was when you were on the bus with her.
CLIENT: This was when I was at the bus stop.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it was at the movie theater.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And then like last week I was at a coffee shop with a friend and right outside the window a car pulled up and she got out and started, you know, fussing with her stuff and got out and left. Or I don’t know. But I was facing directly out in to the window and what sort of give that is I ","P1-N400291":"mostly was just like hmm, I don’t really feel stressed about like, I don’t think I’m going to feel stressed unless she walks in to this where I am, like the shop that I’m in. But like seeing her doing whatever wasn’t feeling stressful which was good because I just…I ","P1-N400292":"guess seeing her [inaudible – 04:45] just brought back so many negative like just really bad and made it like doing [inaudible – 05:00] and just…I don’t think I don’t to be…like I just don’t know. I don’t want to do it. Like I do but I don’t. If ","P1-N400293":"that makes sense. Because I didn’t feel any like anything good about not being upset or scared of her or having like longing for her and then the situation with the bus, I felt like I don’t know. Like I rebooted almost. But that’s what it felt like that; like on the moment, I just ","P1-N400294":"mostly just [inaudible – 05:56], but once I got home and the next day, a few days I just got in the game. Oh God. Like do I have to do this all over again? If that makes sense.
THERAPIST: [inaudible – 07:35].
CLIENT: Yeah, I’m just having this like…but I don’t like…I guess it’s not like when I went okay but I think we should talk about this even though I don’t want to.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It’s more like I just don’t want to.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But I don’t want to stop meeting entirely because I’m confident about it. And yeah, like there’s that [inaudible – 08:21] therapy is kind of [inaudible – 08:23] hard. [Silence.]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And…I really don’t like…I think partially part of one of the things that was [inaudible – 13:22] part of it was I was just like I can’t go through this. Like I just felt like I don’t like…I kind of was coping with it, but I do…I really feel like ","P1-N400491":"I was. It was kind of like I’m making a series of fly by night decisions that aren’t exactly decisions; more like reactions. And like, I don’t know; it’s just so…I’m feeling so out of control and not able to like take care of me. And just like; yeah like, it’s ","P1-N400492":"like does it get better? I was like could they like take care of me. I thought I was have a hard time telling anyone else what was the problem and then also, which always stresses me out, like I ran out of the cat food. The one my cat likes. Cats like. And they both are meowing cats. So I was stressed ","P1-N400493":"about that. I’m like I’m sorry you’re meowing, but I can’t do anything about this right now.
THERAPIST: I see. It’s too disturbing.
CLIENT: Yes, way too disturbing. And like I always find it disturbing, but right now I’m just like I can just tee’d off or for me to be in the other room. Which I actually feel bad about because through [inaudible – 17:24] feeling bad. Like she feels bad that I am the…I’m ","P1-N400531":"exiling myself to my bedroom and I feel bad that she feels bad about that. And…
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like [inaudible – 17:43]
CLIENT: Yeah. And she look and says I’m being ridiculous about not wanting to watch it. Or not…if I’m watching TV she’s able to concentrate on anything at all, and I can’t. I [inaudible – 17:59] on the TV. It almost always distracts me, except for sports because there’s ","P1-N400571":"no like [inaudible – 18:08]. But I’m also super stressed and I don’t know [inaudible – 18:21] who wants to help me with work stuff.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I also find me super stressful and I don’t know; like part of me is like yes. I do want to; like if you really can’t get any [inaudible – 19:01] also. That probably is like and what would they do? Like what would happen next? And also like and then really occupy here, like, ","P1-N4005B1":"maintaining my own mental health. So if I were to choose, I would choose working and keeping me sane rather than dealing with sexual discrimination and [inaudible – 19:26]. And sitting in that group office, I think you almost fall on everyone. It’s really like…I feel I can’t ","P1-N4005B2":"relax and concentrate, relax or concentrate or I don’t know. Like it’s different than being in like a cute farm and behind like there’s a penis or whatever. Because like people are just students. They’re just kind of like wandering in and out all the time. And I can’t say ","P1-N4005B3":"no. Like because we’re an open service area. We’re supposed to help anybody that comes up. But I like…
THERAPIST: Wow. There’s a lot to understand, but one of the things I [inaudible – 24:54] I think I heard you say about therapy is that it makes you feel a lot of ways and you’re describing it like very sort of exposed and washed and like I’ve been kind of say or wander in to ","P1-N400631":"whatever party you like. You know, or I know what you were talking about in whatever way that gives you crowding or intrusive or out of your control, which you did.
CLIENT: Actually it’s more like this stuff that I think I should work on.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: That I don’t feel anymore.
THERAPIST: Okay gotcha.
CLIENT: Like I don’t think that…I do not feel like you have the [inaudible – 26:06] should be…it’s totally [inaudible – 26:13].
THERAPIST: Yeah. Gotcha.
CLIENT: Sure. [Silence.] I guess as a feeling sometimes, I…some of this happened yesterday, [inaudible – 26:38] to that. It feels [inaudible – 26:45] like I’m kind of jumping in to the sort of feelings or associations to what you’re talking about kind of like both feet.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess.
CLIENT: I mean it feels like something you sort of lose control over a bit. Like I’ve got to see what I’m going to say about it. Yeah, which is what I want, but then sometimes also I’m like I would just like, I don’t know [inaudible – 28:01].
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or you don’t know what to…I guess sometimes I don’t know what to do with it. It’s that like, okay, so I think about all these things but I’m too tired to…it’s too much to think about it. Like to continue processing after.
THERAPIST: You are your own like this. And then it becomes this.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or does it seem to be this? I think.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that adds to the [inaudible – 29:21].
CLIENT: Yeah. And I think also a [inaudible – 29:25].
THERAPIST: Just the sort of control with what you’re actually dealing with or a [inaudible – 29:36] really.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So I’m not, I’m not saying that I’m unaware of that. I’m talking more; I’m referring more to like what can feel much better in the moment or what can make it difficult. That kind of thing. If that makes sense.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, it does. And that sort of like; I mean [inaudible – 30:19] conflicts or whatever in the moment is freaking really hard. Like…I do anything talking about my mom is super hard in the moment because; part because like I, well, I know what it is. Like it’s called; it’s ","P1-N400991":"like, my brother’s [inaudible – 30:51] psychiatrist saying like the reason you’re bipolar is because you’re mixed race. And then sort of a few of like…that was the thing that both my brother and I have heard. Like [inaudible – 31:10] is well, you know, like I know ","P1-N400992":"[inaudible – 31:14] failed marriages, but what about the children? We get so mixed up and confused. Like we…
THERAPIST: That would be you and him.
CLIENT: Yeah, so it’s like…I mean we both say that to like me or him or my parents, which we both have. It’s like, it’s incredibly [inaudible – 31:39]. It’s incredibly weird. And so like my first reaction is generally like “Fuck you, I’m fine.” Like ","P1-N4009F1":"actually, I’m also [inaudible – 31:51]. What are you talking about? And so then it becomes difficult to be like, well, actually, mistakes are made but not because my parents are different races, but for other reasons.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But like I guess like it’s hard to…that’s my knee jerk reaction is to sort of defend the concept of having mixed race kids.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And that like I have emotional problems not because of like racial [inaudible – 33:06]. And that’s also one of those things where I feel like people…like people like to use the existence of interracial families and mixed raced people as like a metaphor. I was like, look; racism ","P1-N400A91":"isn’t over because of law or like I am the embodiment of the end of racism and racial unity and…that’s a lot for a person. And I also don’t mix [inaudible – 34:10] combination. And so I don’t know. I feel like I’ve had a lot of conversations in which I thought ","P1-N400A92":"because I felt like, oh we’re talking about me, but we’re not actually; we were talking about like [inaudible – 34:41]. Like they’re trashing a mixed race person. The symbolic [inaudible – 34:49] person. And so it’s like I have this like, you know, a set of like things ","P1-N400A93":"that [inaudible – 35:13] getting out of that can be hard.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah. I would imagine that if it registered as such before now you would have said so.
CLIENT: Yeah, coming from them, you have said things that I disagreed with.
THERAPIST: I did? Yeah, absolutely. This isn’t coming across to me as something that you said if like knowing, had trouble saying so much as something that was unclear was kind of in the way that it was and making you feel bad in the way that it would.
CLIENT: Yeah. The other thing is that I’ve been thinking is I…when we talked at one point about doing like, I was surprised as to how strong of a reaction I had. The idea of not being able to see you. Like…
THERAPIST: Yeah, okay.
CLIENT: Yeah it was two; one was lie down and two; lying down and not being able to see you sort of come by and I just like…which…it’s not the money…has been an issue for me before and like I’ve had male gynecologists and was like don’t care, you know. Like the gender ","P1-N400BB1":"of like whoever is treating me doesn’t…has never been an issue for me. And suddenly I’ll say, oh, this actually feels like a huge thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I guess it’s the fear of not being able to tell that it might happen.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And then not being able to do anything about it. But if after the first fear, it is not being able to see [inaudible – 41:00]. And that…it’s not something that’s been like…I don’t; I don’t like living like you’re hanging, but I mean that’s ","P1-N400C91":"like [inaudible – 41:28]. But just to me it’s sort of like but I know who this person is and yet I still feel scared about it. And it feels like intensity like…I guess I feel like I’m like; I’m even [inaudible – 41:57] an irrational fear of like that’s not actually ","P1-N400C92":"going to happen. You are not going to leap out like an action move. But like it’s just like irrational crazy feeling like in my head. [inaudible – 42:12] feel like I guess it’s really like not getting a warning; not being able to read somebody else’s body language or see that ","P1-N400C93":"there is something. I guess not…like not getting a warning.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: [inaudible – 42:46] and all of a sudden just being [inaudible – 42:49] with a monster. [Silence.] I think it’s kind of…it’s a [inaudible – 43:45] a lot of how I feel [inaudible – 43:54]. I just be sort of what happened here? And I also sort of realized ","P1-N400CF1":"this but I was thinking recently how in doing like public speaking or [inaudible – 44:23] meeting. I spend a lot of time looking at people’s body language and like trying to…I guess trying to read where; like reading is going, where people are going. Like I can get really caught up ","P1-N400CF2":"in like am I sitting pissed off? Am I sitting whatever.
THERAPIST: Yeah. We can stop for now.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Do you have any idea what you want to do or talk about some more next week and then try to make a decision?
CLIENT: I think I want to talk about it more next week.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Except I may be really exhausted on Monday. I’m going to be out of town all weekend.
THERAPIST: I see. [inaudible – 45:25].
CLIENT: Stick with Tuesday and talk about it.
THERAPIST: Okay. I think I probably will have the mid-day appointments during the rest of the week. Do you want to look at those now or do you want to just go…just meet Tuesday and go from there?
CLIENT: I want to talk to you on Tuesday and go from there.
THERAPIST: Okay, let’s do that.
CLIENT: The 16th.
THERAPIST: See it’s next Monday, so that’s…
CLIENT: Monday’s the 15th.
THERAPIST: Alright, then, I’ll see you on Tuesday.