TITLE: Client "Ju", Session June 11, 2013: Client talks about her cousin's children and celebrating her birthday with her parents. Client and therapist discuss her anger toward her mother and why the relationship is difficult.
DESCRIPTION: Client talks about her cousin's children and celebrating her birthday with her parents. Client and therapist discuss her anger toward her mother and why the relationship is difficult.
THERAPIST: I mean it will be right around the fourth.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. Oh. On July 2nd, I have to cancel because I have a dental appointment.
THERAPIST: Okay. I will make a note.
CLIENT: That's the 2nd.
THERAPIST: Okay. Do you know if it's a Monday or a Tuesday?
CLIENT: It's a Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Yeah. So, happily, I had a major call back this morning, so I didn't have to talk to him about how I wasn't going to go to his (inaudible) meeting. My parents came and it was a lot. I don't know. I was, I guess I would say I was fairly zoned out from like Friday through Sunday and yesterday ","P1-N400191":"and some of today still. [00:01:30]
THERAPIST: Oh. [00:04:00]
CLIENT: Which makes it harder for her to hear and when she talks, she hears an echo. This is mostly because she doesn't like to admit being sick and had some kind of vertigo signs for at least four months and never really got it treated.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I think that was contributing to it because sometimes I would talk to her and she didn't notice or react. So, maybe some of that was her not hearing right. Not helpful and weird. I don't know. My dad was sort of like being extra jovial, which I also found weird. Like, I don't know. I guess I ","P1-N400251":"felt like we were sort of, I felt like I was stuck in a bad television show or play of the family gets together and does a few things and goes out to dinner. It just felt very weird. [00:05:30]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I don't know. Yeah. It was just like a really miserable day. I wasn't really feeling much of anything most of the day. It was just like I want to get through this day. I don't think it hurts to leave. The next day I had been invited to go to a friend's house to watch Scandal and have lunch. ","P1-N4002D1":"I ended up declining because I was just like sitting and drinking a cup of coffee and realized I was just starting to cry. So, I thought I would try to lie down and lay in bed and I cried off and on. [00:08:30]
THERAPIST: Oh, I see. [00:13:30]
CLIENT: I was like well, but, he hasn't been in jail for a while and there was just no point in trying to get child support while he was in jail. It just didn't seem like the most, I don't know, like it didn't make sense to me, but it made sense to her. (pause) I noticed also having to like so the results ","P1-N400391":"are like some story that my mom is telling me about how one of my uncles had like, most of my uncles will help a family member out which they do periodically and one of them wanted some money, so he gave two thousand dollars to my cousin Daniel. I'm like because he needed it. He didn't have any money. ","P1-N400392":"It was this sort of problem that they ended up in. Actually, it was a joke that my uncle had given Daniel the money because my uncle is super cheap and would never hand someone over two thousand dollars. [00:15:00]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: In approximately an hour.
THERAPIST: Right. So, your mother was the one making joke?
CLIENT: Well, she was describing how she hadn't realized it was a joke at first. She was like oh, at first she was had this whole thing where like she thought it was weird that it had happened and then she thought oh, maybe he was just giving Daniel money and said that he wanted it because Daniel is ","P1-N400431":"too proud to take money, except that sometimes he's not. So, she had this whole thing and then she's like oh, it was a joke about someone else being cheap.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:16:00]
CLIENT: I'm still not quite sure how it was a joke exactly, but I'm just accepting it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't know. My parents and not just my parents, but also like some of my other, my father's, relatives will sit there and make comments about how my cousin Daniel like doesn't want to take money, except that sometimes he does. He's very weird about asking for help. My father and his siblings ","P1-N4004B1":"have been known to get in to serious grabbing the bill intensity to pay. I'm always like okay. That's cool, but I think you are getting a little excessive at times. One time there was a sort of grabbing the bill and then it turns out one of my uncles had told the host at the beginning of the meal, put ","P1-N4004B2":"it on my card and that's subverting everyone. I was just like guys, chill out. Just let someone pay or don't pay.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Don't get crazy about it. They were like oh, well, you know, you just don't understand that sometimes you really want to treat someone. I'm like yeah, but I said well, okay, but I don't need to get in to a fight about it. The sort of joke was that I am willing to let people pay for me. [00:17:40]
THERAPIST: Oh, I see.
CLIENT: And I should maybe argue about it more or that you're supposed to argue about it more.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Which I'm kind of uncomfortable with. Yes, I am willing to let people buy me dinner, but I'm also willing to pay for my dinner. If someone has more money than me, I'm totally willing to let them buy me dinner. I don't know. (pause) (silence from 00:18:20 through 21:00:00)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I don't know. The whole, I guess I just also have a lot of, I feel weird about them having driven down here and then like they said they drove four hours to have dinner and then drive back. [00:22:00]
THERAPIST: Right. What I, I got the impression as well that really your mother is entirely in control of the situation and what happens.
CLIENT: Is or is not?
THERAPIST: Is, actually. I don't mean she's like sort of consciously being manipulative, but the way she keeps you off balance is really remarkable and I think maybe it's the way she kind of completely paralyzes you in that you can't, like, there's something about how she makes plans and says things, ","P1-N400651":"does things to you that leaves you sort of unable to kind of resist or negotiate apart from just keeping her out and at arm's length when you can. Although, sometimes you can't. [00:24:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. Like this weekend.
THERAPIST: You can't really think about what's going on while it's going on or some of what is being done to you and you can only kind of, almost like indirectly or very harshly feel what it's like. What she is doing to you. Meaning that you were crying the next day. Meaning you wanted to get through ","P1-N400691":"it and you didn't want them to come. You know, you feel out of it. Those are sort of, they seem to me kind of more indications that you're having very strong feelings than they are sort of are clearly articulated strong feelings in a way. [00:25:45]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean there are specific experiences, but they are also sort of have been removed.
CLIENT: Yeah. I have the symptoms of being really fucking upset, but I don't actually.
THERAPIST: You're not in touch with it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: With being really upset. It seems to me that has something to do with the sort of control that she exerts or that from your side that you feel hurt. Over you in a way she keeps you off balance. I think you're sort of, you react to that by becoming really quite passive and as part of that ","P1-N400751":"like losing your capacities to think and have more contact with what you feel and take action. I mean I know when it's things like making plans with them before they come. There's negotiation there and you can push and you can avoid and you can get out of time spent. I mean like once they're here. Yeah. [00:27:25]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don't know about her words, but those are some thoughts that I have. Sorry.
CLIENT: One of the things I was thinking that was one of the things I thought about this trip is sort of, I mean my parents didn't really tell me when they were going to come, like what time. So, I spent the week trying to be like so, how about we do this or this? What do you think? It was just like ","P1-N4007B1":"a series of my mom was like oh, I thought we could go to this garden. I'm not really interested. We could go to the sculptural museum on Saturday and she's like, nope. The weather's too bad to go to that. I was like okay. How about the museum or a movie? She's like no, your dad doesn't like those movies. ","P1-N4007B2":"So, it was this very like, not so much negotiation as no, like, both of us are saying no a lot. [00:28:40]
THERAPIST: Yeah. There's really not any. The only communication you described actually through the whole visit is the (inaudible), really.
CLIENT: Yeah. Part of that also is that my mom makes me feel that she is like conveying facts that are unrelated to feelings. I can be kind of surprised that Daniel has surprise twins, but it happened and you have to just accept it. Does it happen, you just, it, I don't know. It's this kind of weird ","P1-N4007F1":"like. I mean I had kind of a strong reaction.
THERAPIST: Oh?
CLIENT: I just said like. I was feeling anxious. Yeah.
THERAPIST: You often have very strong emotional reactions to things. I don't mean, not in a bad way.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:30:00]
THERAPIST: Not at all. You just, you seem sort of, you feel things strongly sometimes which people do.
CLIENT: Yeah. My mom was very much like nope. Similarly, when they told us his girlfriend had stomach cancer.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So, they called my parents about it and he really loves her and relies on her a lot to be mutually supportive and my mom was kind of weirdly judgmental that he was very upset. She's like, he was like falling apart and sort of it was like why was he doing it that way? I'm like I don't know, because ","P1-N4008F1":"his long term girlfriend has cancer and he's worried she's going to die and he has been convinced for years that he was going to die before he was 35. He turned 35 this year. [00:31:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think in a sort of a like, maybe in kind of a subtle and sort of an unusual way, your mom is incredibly aggressive.
CLIENT: Yeah. She really is. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean sort of pushing all the time and drops these bombs and goes after you if you have a reaction to them is very aggressive. It's very intrusive and really I think feels quite disturbing. (pause) [00:34:20]
CLIENT: Yeah. Part of what's difficult for me about her when she's very aggressive is the way that she insists that she's not and also there's no, she doesn't acknowledge what she's doing or what's happening, so it's very hard to say can you stop doing that?
THERAPIST: Yeah. That seems to me to be part of it.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Is that she just sort of. Yeah. I don't think she sort of consciously means to do it. I really don't think she does. The fact that it obliterates any point of view you might have that's different from hers.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean it's sort of like that sort of thing cannot exist.
CLIENT: Yeah. It's also, it's so tough. It also becomes very alienating.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:35:45]
CLIENT: Especially when she decides there is something that I like or enjoy that I don't particularly. Like, she's decided in the last couple of years that because I access my actual cats, that I must want lots of like cat type things.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I'm like no. I don't have any in my house.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I don't express an interest in them.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But, she'll give them to me and be like look, I got what you wanted.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I'll say okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That's not what I wanted. I don't know. I feel like I've her daughter for a really long time.
THERAPIST: Pretty much your whole life as far that goes. [00:36:45]
CLIENT: Yeah. Pretty much and I've pretty much been the same like, overall same person as a daughter.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, I just, it's just pretty mind blowing she gets like really focused on this version of me that doesn't really exist.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Or like I get upset over the same things that I have been getting upset for and she's still surprised.
THERAPIST: Yeah. When you described to me that, today for example, really aside from her paying for things, you haven't really described any instances of her like acknowledging you. Who you are and how you're different to her. Her reaction to things. Rather, what you describe is an effort to really ","P1-N400CD1":"obliterate this thing. [00:38:20]
CLIENT: Yeah. This always makes me like, I don't know. Not always, but I guess because I was having a lot of has she always been like this? Is this new? You know? Are we having more conflicts because I'm older and have a more established personality or like whatever? I don't know. I guess what I think ","P1-N400CF1":"is in terms of is this new? Well, if I knew me the last decade or so, sure, but it's not exactly new. (pause) [00:39:40]
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:43:30]
CLIENT: The other thing is I also feel like super confident that they're, my mom is not being entirely truthful about how my dad is doing particularly or how she is doing physically. My dad basically stopped reading books. Period.
THERAPIST: Oh?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Do you know why or what that relates to with his health?
CLIENT: Nope. I have no idea. I asked him. At first he said that he was feeling tired and he wanted to read like short fiction or nonfiction. This is the day he said he just isn't reading. In retirement he has discovered wiki holes and Wikipedia.
THERAPIST: Oh, the wiki hole?
CLIENT: Yeah. He follows the wiki hole and two hours later he was like I was just looking up the capital of Luxemburg. What happened? So, he has been doing that and that's about and he's watching more television than he used to. I don't know. Is he just like I'm retired I can do what I want? Is he having ","P1-N400E51":"a hard time maintain his attention span? Is there something wrong with his eyes? I just sort of like can't get anything. He just lost it all and my mom sounds vaguely concerned, but won't say anything which is pretty par for the course for them. So, I don't think I have a way to find out and also if ","P1-N400E52":"I sound too worried, I think my parents would put more effort in to lying about it.
THERAPIST: We should stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I will see you next week.
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks.
THERAPIST: Yeah.