TITLE: Client "Ju", Session June 4, 2013: Client thinks she is communicating poorly with friends and coworkers; expresses serious dissatisfaction with her workplace and manager.
DESCRIPTION: Client thinks she is communicating poorly with friends and coworkers; expresses serious dissatisfaction with her workplace and manager.
CLIENT: You had mentioned yesterday that I was describing what was happening more than how I was feeling about it with my mom and various people.
THERAPIST: I kind of get the feeling that you thought I'm supposed to have the reaction? Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean you aren't, but that's sort of how it feels.
CLIENT: I don't know. When I think about it, maybe. I think it's not exactly that I want you to be angry on my behalf so much as I want, I think affirmation or confirmation that how I feel is reasonable.
THERAPIST: That is more the sense that I get. I mean there are people who are kind of like can you believe this? They kind of want you on their side. That's not so much the feel it has to me, but more so what you're saying is like yeah, okay, he's annoyed. So it makes sense that I'm annoyed. [00:01:40]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You have to trust that reaction.
CLIENT: Like when I first realized that Chet had off for the week. I based my assertions on that you were going to be here for a while and then went up to the librarian and was like did that make sense? Was that crazy? What?
THERAPIST: That's annoying, right?
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm like don't your managers tell you things?
THERAPIST: It's not like I'm completely furious and you need to be on my side on this. It's more like this isn't me, right? He's being whatever.
CLIENT: Yeah. Exactly. I was really furious.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (inaudible) I guess, so one of the things I was thinking about was, we did a, the panel that I was on was called moding 201.
THERAPIST: Moderating? [00:03:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. The 101 is the basics. This was like what do you do when your panel goes rogue? What do you do if someone heckles? We talked about horrible examples and things that we have done. While I was sitting there people started listing things and I was thinking well, usually as a moderator I try ","P1-N4002B1":"to sit in the middle of like say five people. I watch people's body language and the audience's body language. If someone's like how can you tell if a question is going really wrong? I said usually the whole room kind of goes and I know more than once on a panel I've like grabbed and punched my hands ","P1-N4002B2":"and had someone say don't worry, it will be okay. That's the reaction. It's how people react. I was thinking about it. Oh right, I'm surrounded by a lot of nerds who are crap at that which leads to a lot of situations where I'm just sort of like I'm pretty sure that normally we don't do it that way. [00:04:20]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: The person is really insistent they are right which is also very (inaudible). Then I have people who say I'm pretty sure I am the more normally socialized one here, but this is very confusing. Not just the gamer. I don't know. I do spend a lot of time, I spend time in the workplace or if I'm ","P1-N4002F1":"talking to. I hate that on the phone I can't see the other person and I really want to see their body language and it drives me pretty bat shit. I'm having a very hard time communicating with people who are autistic because they are not giving me any signs and I find it very disconcerting and confusing ","P1-N4002F2":"and just difficult in general. [00:05:40]
THERAPIST: It's the way that you are very worried about having the experience like being lost. Like being sort of dropped in the crowd and not being able to say or do anything about the way you wanted it to go. Where you're coming from with Chet gets lost for whatever reason. I mean with the panels ","P1-N400351":"as well, sort of going off the rails and there's sort of scariness about that. You're worried about that.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:11:00]
THERAPIST: Part of this starts being body language and being something you can't deal with on the phone. Partly being very attentive to that in order to know best how to speak to the other person so that they will get where you're coming from. I think part of it is the worry it that you're going to get tossed.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it's also, like along with being able to I guess. I want to get across whatever it is that I'm thinking. I feel like part of that is the other person acknowledging that in some way. So not too extreme like I hear that you said this. Something like oh, yes, I have heard these words ","P1-N4003B1":"you said and I have some kind of response. (pause) [00:12:30]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I was talking to someone again about the ideas that I have for getting people to use expensive (inaudible) and the person I was talking to today, probably because I just sort of sat down and said hi. We're talking now. [00:14:00]
THERAPIST: I wonder if explaining it in sort of this moment is like maybe you're wanting to be sort of reacting very clearly about how frustrating and kind of (inaudible) it can be.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean at the end of feeling all this self-doubt over things that like an hour later I'm like no, I'm sure I was right or at least I have a valid viewpoint.
THERAPIST: I think it's more than that as well. Also, the intensity of the frustration that you were feeling.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:21:45]
THERAPIST: It seems to me as you're talking about how it would be helpful. (pause) [00:22:45]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think the big, some of the, like, I think some of the emotional buttons or areas or whatever. I don't know. The more I think about it, the more I think like well, I would really like someone in the library system who is above me to say something critical about (inaudible) and say well, ","P1-N4005B1":"that kind of sucked. I think that would help tremendously. [00:24:30]
THERAPIST: What I'm wondering about is whether you, putting it rashly is, I think you know you know you're probably never going to get this. I mean you've talked to a lot of people about this. In HR, Chet, Karl, other people you work with. You've talked to the, I forget what her name was. She was the ","P1-N4006B1":"diversity something.
CLIENT: The diversity recruiter.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like there's somebody. I don't know. I wonder if in holding out this hope is a way of warding off or trying to protect yourself from some of the more negatives in the ways you actually see where you work and how you feel about that.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:36:00]
THERAPIST: In other words, the focus is on who can you find and where is the next person going to be more so than on how much they let you down and how horrible that has been and how horribly it reflects on where you work.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I think it just, it seems to me so obviously like not fair, not just and not sensible. To me I'm like wow, this is a lot of crappy things. I am a skilled employee.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, I'm a what?
CLIENT: I am a skilled employee. These are things I know about.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I don't want my workplace to be that level of toxic, but I think it is that level of toxic. I mean sometimes it feels like the frustration of (inaudible) that they'll believe, like oh, that would be really exciting if we weren't doing it here.
THERAPIST: Oh, oh. I see. [00:37:30]
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm like oh, yes. You're on that committee (inaudible) library and I don't know. (pause) I guess I get in to this so well, then why am I staying which is a lot. [00:38:30]
THERAPIST: Is there a name for the person telling you that story?
CLIENT: Yeah. To the point where it's totally different. Yeah. It's a mix.
THERAPIST: Or at least, go ahead.
CLIENT: I was talking to someone today about, she's like oh, if you are interested in blah, blah, you should get your, or in this committee that Karl wants to do. I was telling them, I'm like so, here's the problem. This sounds really exciting, but I don't want to do it if it's going to go nowhere and ","P1-N4008B1":"I don't see and I don't know that Karl is the person who is going to go forward with it. [00:40:00]
THERAPIST: Is there any actual chance it would be awesome? I mean we talked about it. I don't think you ever described to me in sort of the people at your workplace that did anything you feel good about. I'm not saying that's never happened, but you haven't described it to me. [00:41:20]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean my favorite is the measure of reading collection. I get a lot of joy of that because some rich people donated a shit ton of money to the library that can only be used non curricular, fun reading and that was a big pot of money, so I got to be like I think we should buy 20 books ","P1-N400911":"by lesbian Latinos and they're like sure. So, I love that.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I really was ridiculously excited to read books out of the collection, but that's completely not my job. That's just a committee that I'm on that I happen to like.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I made up a project for myself that I like. Yeah. I mean the IT work that I have done is satisfying sometimes.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying that your job isn't satisfying. There are some things you enjoy doing there. [00:42:30]
CLIENT: What I was going to say is that I'm essentially cut out of the IT because they're re-organizing and they're making it done and now my actual department has been a cluster fuck. So, yeah. I like people who are in other departments, but not mine and like, you know, and crash the (inaudible). Those ","P1-N4009D1":"kinds of things and I don't think they mind, but it is kind of weird that, like, I don't know. That I don't think, in my most immediate department that I'm just like lazy and incompetent. Incompetent. Leave.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:43:30]
CLIENT: Lazy, incompetent and going nowhere. Chet has the competencies to say when I get a raise at some point, so yeah. I think part of the desire to go on to other communities is to just get out of my department because I feel like other departments do work on some things and are less sucky except ","P1-N400A11":"I guess the grass is always greener. [00:44:20]
THERAPIST: I think, I just thought about I guess I'm hearing a lot of the shady things you feel about that which I think your interest is in sort of getting something more positive from someone is kind of an effort to look at. I mean it would be great if somebody responded well, but I think you're sort ","P1-N400A51":"of putting that to a particular use, mainly to put the focus away from how shitty you have been describing feel in the sense that in a variety of ways but that happens consistently and it sucks.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Monday, not Tuesday. And you said Friday was not good, right?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So, I'll let you know if I have anything. Okay?
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. Today and yesterday I'm having a hard time getting out of chairs.