TITLE: Client "K", Session August 12, 2013: Client discusses an upcoming wedding she's attending. Client discusses how she feels like life is passing her by and this makes her anxious and upset.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses an upcoming wedding she's attending. Client discusses how she feels like life is passing her by and this makes her anxious and upset.
CLIENT: [This week is, ummm] (ph) (pause) So this coming Friday, one of my friends from Dartmouth, she's getting married and it's in Philadelphia or whatever.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: And it's like a traditional south Indian kind of ceremony kind of thing. (pause) I don't know. I was really I mean, I am excited for it, but I don't know.
THERAPIST: [Maybe it's hard to think about what you want] (ph) (inaudible at 00:05:30).
CLIENT: (pause) I guess. (long pause) And I guess I just kind of feel like a lot of things are [tracking around me] (ph) and I'm doing a lot, but I don't know. (pause)
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Yeah. That was good. I left -
THERAPIST: Is she in Delaware over the summer?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, she's already started her fourth year, whatever.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: [Which I guess she's just going to see if she likes Dartmouth] (ph). But I went to see her and some of her friends from dental school [that I like] (ph) pretty well. It was good.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: We went hiking. (inaudible at 00:10:11) because I'm around like, I don't know, a lot of people. I don't know. I guess it's just kind of like a different world because, I don't know, there's a couple of friends and they just kind of talk about dental school drama or problems. I don't know.
THERAPIST: I wonder if you're wondering what to say or feeling anxious at all about what to talk about or have anything to talk about [kind of on my behalf] (ph), probably because of how it would affect me or how I would react to it. I'm wondering if partly because you seem to be talking about being ","P1-N400471":"fairly focused on or even absorbed by other people's dramas or what they have going on. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess I don't really know what's really going on with me in terms of like (pause) how I feel or what I think. (long pause) I don't know.
THERAPIST: There is a way you describe it that makes it sound almost as though it comes from outside of you, these sort of competing demands, I guess, at the moment. On one side, to get busy, be productive, be efficient, don't be lazy. On the other, to do things differently, to have a different approach. ","P1-N400571":"(long pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I guess I can (inaudible at 00:17:27) controlling them or being that successful, but I don't know. Kind of it's like a battle of what to do with my day [or what to think about it] (ph) because maybe I think it's something I can't control or something. (long pause)
THERAPIST: [I imagine it might make you] (ph) anxious to say something like that, that in a way you don't understand entirely or (pause) that might not be entirely clear [to me] (ph). (long pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. (pause) I guess I don't want to like I don't know. It's frustrating and then I don't know. (pause) I feel like I don't know. If there's that much I don't know more I can do or like I don't know to change things. I don't know. (pause) I don't know. (long pause)
THERAPIST: It's really very important to feel like you are in you should be in control. I think that you feel that [bad things] (ph) like a feeling I guess of losing time, of it flying by -
CLIENT: (pause) Right. (pause) I don't know. (pause)
THERAPIST: Do you think it makes you quite anxious to have a feeling like that and that (pause) the consequence of that you swing into action mode? I haven't done something right, there must be something I should do differently to fix that, I should have more structure, I should have less structure. (pause)
CLIENT: I guess I don't know. It kind of felt like something is off. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess it feels like if I don't it's not obvious to me that's the way to respond, then I really don't get what this is really like or (pause) see that there's really a problem. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't think I'm doing [the way you're describing it]. (ph) (long pause) [It's not really clear to me] (ph) what exactly is the problem other than I don't know. [I guess I'm just feeling] (ph) stuck and [thinking I should be changing]. (ph) (long pause)
THERAPIST: [To make it less confusing]. (ph)
CLIENT: Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: I guess it's one reason (pause) (inaudible at 00:43:33) makes you anxious when you say something like "It feels like life is flying by." Because that sounds to me like it comes actually from kind of a somewhat different perspective than the perspective of "How do I make this better, how do ","P1-N4009F1":"I improve at more things, or how do I change my strategy?" Do you know what I mean? Like there's sort of a different tone to it, and the point of view is a little different.
CLIENT: (pause) Right. (pause)
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. [See you tomorrow].
CLIENT: [See you].