TITLE: Client "K", Session January 22, 2013: Client has been physically exhausted and sleeping a lot recently.
DESCRIPTION: Client has been physically exhausted and sleeping a lot recently.
THERAPIST: Yea, thanks for your message yesterday (inaudible at 0:00:07). I think we just hadn't talked about the Monday like in the last week so I was confused. But I'm pretty sure that I put in that for some reason that way.
CLIENT: So yea, I guess not much has...
THERAPIST: Other than the scheduling?
CLIENT: Oh, yea. Wednesday. Yes, I can do it but I can't do it this Wednesday because of a doctor's appointment that's happening.
THERAPIST: All right. The other thing is I assume that noon is better than something like 10:00 in the morning or 9:15 in the morning. Is that right?
CLIENT: I can do 9:15 if that's available on Wednesday.
THERAPIST: What's better for you?
CLIENT: Probably the 9:15.
THERAPIST: 9:15?
CLIENT: Yea.
THERAPIST: OK. [0:01:01] I think I can do that. (pause) Well, I'll start I can do that starting next week.
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: I'm not sure about tomorrow. I can let you know later today about tomorrow or we can bag tomorrow.
CLIENT: Yea, we can just bag tomorrow.
THERAPIST: OK. Then I will let you know Thursday. But I'm almost certain I can do that. So...
CLIENT: OK. (pause) Not much is going on. I feel I don't know. [0:02:02] I just I guess I've been just not doing very much and kind of staying at home. (pause) Yea. I guess yea. A little bit indecision kind of thinking. (inaudible at 0:02:28) decided to do and just kind of stay at home or just ","P1-N400291":"don't do anything. Yea. (pause)
THERAPIST: Both during the week and on the weekends?
CLIENT: Yea. And...
THERAPIST: And when you say at night, do you mean like you mean dinnertime? Or do you really mean more like 9:00, 10:00? [0:05:01]
CLIENT: I guess from like 4:00 pm until bedtime.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I don't know. Yea. (pause) And yea. I don't know. But so I spent I guess part of the weekend trying to find things for me to do. I guess like joining a group or I don't know taking a class [and different things] (ph). So I just decided to take two classes at the university. And I'm excited ","P1-N400391":"about them. [0:06:07]
THERAPIST: At the expensive school?
CLIENT: Yea. One is a it's a neuroscience like class. It's Neurodegenerative Diseases. And it's discussion based (inaudible at 0:06:21). So I'm excited to...
THERAPIST: Cool.
CLIENT: ...do it. And the other one is Computer Science class (ph) visualization. Like what they had to visualize the data (inaudible at 0:06:35. And that one is just online actually. So I'll see how it goes. Yea, so I think that'll be good with me. One, because I enjoy learning neuroscience. And two, ","P1-N400411":"it gives me something to do.
THERAPIST: This is the first thing you've done with neuroscience since graduating?
CLIENT: Yea. And yea, I definitely like learning about computers (inaudible at 0:07:09). Sounds fun. But yea, so I start next week. But yea. But now I've kind of looked into some other things like a running club but then there's a lot of running outside this time of year. (chuckling) I'll wait till March.
THERAPIST: (chuckling) Right. (pause)
CLIENT: Yea. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Looking for a fair weather running club.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Probably not a frozen running club.
CLIENT: Right. Yea. And the I was just looking at it like (inaudible at 0:08:07) (inaudible at 0:08:09) it was like really intense. It was like eight to ten miles every time you go. (chuckling) (inaudible at 0:08:17) summer is the one that meets actually pretty close to my house. So that (inaudible at 0:08:22).
THERAPIST: Oh, cool.
CLIENT: But anyway, I guess I was kind of searching for things to do. I guess just to meet people and not freaking about stuff. I don't know. Taking classes I mean, yea. (inaudible at 0:08:44) and one that's comfortable with me. (pause) [0:09:00]
THERAPIST: I see. Just sleeping in particular? Or just like the whole package of not doing much and sleeping?
CLIENT: And sleeping and staying in bed. Yea. I don't know. It's (inaudible at 0:09:42).
THERAPIST: Well, what does it feel like? Does it feel more like you're shutting down because you're frustrated or like you're just taking it easy or taking a break? [0:10:03] Or like you're actually somehow really tired?
CLIENT: I think I am exhausted from just constantly driving myself crazy. Like what I should do? I don't want to watch TV. I don't know. Should I read something? I don't know. Just going through a list of things I should do. I mean, but yea. I'm like physically tired.
THERAPIST: Tired and wears you out.
CLIENT: Yea. Or even it gives me headaches sometimes. But yea, so I don't know. I mean, just lay down and I usually I don't know sleep for a little bit.
THERAPIST: And then do you wake up or are you usually going down for the count?
CLIENT: If I go to bed early like before 9:00 I usually wake up. And I like brush my teeth and I'll get a glass of water or something. And I can usually fall back asleep (inaudible at 0:11:02). And then I wake up pretty early but I just kind of lounge and I don't know daydream sometimes.
THERAPIST: And that's usually it's your time. The morning, I mean.
CLIENT: Yea, I don't know. Yea. When I'm less negative or just bored. Yea. (pause) And so yea. But of course I'm always late because I don't know just being lazy or stuff like that. But yea.
THERAPIST: Is there more you can say about the kind of arguments you have? Or like the things that you're thinking about and feeling in the process of driving yourself crazy? [0:12:08]
CLIENT: Yea. Like I guess an example would be like (inaudible at 0:12:27) in the morning and I was like not morning it was like around noon and I was like should I go to yoga or should I go running? And then I'm like, well, it's windy outside and I'm not running. But running is kind of well, I guess ","P1-N4006F1":"more like it burns more calories. And then I don't know I was kind of tired so I don't know if I should go to yoga. Or maybe running would be it's just like crazy stuff. Like how to be more efficient. And maybe I should just go to work after the gym and then I could study or do some work. (chuckling) [0:13:05]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And I don't know. I was like the but the busses aren't running that often. So maybe it would be just a waste of time. (chuckling) (inaudible at 0:13:13).
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And then or what should I eat? Or am I really even hungry or if I'm just bored? I don't know. I mean, I should have maybe (inaudible at 0:13:22) something. Just I don't know searching for things to do. I mean, really not doing anything. Like I usually actually I call Vicki (ph) (inaudible ","P1-N400771":"at 0:13:32) to tell me what to do. Would you like to go to yoga? And I did, so I don't know. (chuckling).
THERAPIST: A lot of it seems to sort of cluster around how much you're pushing yourself and how much you're sort of kind of taking it easy or doing things for yourself. [0:14:02]
CLIENT: Yea, but I feel like I'm not doing anything. And I feel like I would feel so much better if I push myself a little bit to like go to something or do something. And...
THERAPIST: Yea. I don't I'm not trying to come down on one side or the other. I'm just saying like, well, it seems to be well, should I do running because that burns more calories. But it's actually more pleasant because it's outside and it'll be windy. And I could do yoga but is that too easy or ","P1-N4007D1":"is it just enough? Or maybe I should then I could also go to the gym which would be a more efficient way to work out. But then I'd be near work so I could work so I could sort of get something accomplished.
CLIENT: Right. I don't know. I just I mean I feel like I have like time and I need to be like working on myself. Or I need to be kind of, I guess, doing I don't know good things for myself like running and cooking and I don't know. I just...
THERAPIST: Just...
CLIENT: ...yea, that I want to be this natural for me. Like to want to go running or to want to cook, I guess, sort of. I don't know. Or to want to I don't know read or researching online. Or I don't know. Just like having an interest or something like that. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Yea. (pause)
CLIENT: So yea.
THERAPIST: So I guess that sort of brings it a little bit differently. More in terms of like that sounds to me like a separate but probably an also like involved issue, I guess. [0:16:14] Like the wish, on one hand, for these to just sort of come naturally, I guess.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Like it sounds like you wish you felt like, "Oh, it's 4:00 on a Saturday. I feel like going running."
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Or, "Oh, I've had a nice morning. Now I'm going to go shopping and then cook myself something nice for dinner."
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Like you want to feel like that stuff just spontaneously occurs to you and you just go with it.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And I guess you're kind of frustrated that it doesn't.
CLIENT: Yea. Or yea, I just don't want things. Or I talk myself immediately out of them. [0:16:59] Yea, I should go running but it's windy. Just like I don't know. I mean, it's yea. And then I feel the need to push myself so it doesn't yea, it will make me feel better. And I think of if I push ","P1-N4009D1":"myself like make it a habit I guess then it will come more natural, I think. Or I'll want it or something. (pause)
THERAPIST: And I gather you sort of, in a way, don't give much credence to the part of you that's like, "It's really cold out. I don't feel like running right now." Or, "I'd rather just order in." [0:18:09] Or, "Maybe I'll just take a nap. I can do that spontaneously." I mean, you sound mostly kind ","P1-N4009F1":"of annoyed at that part or like it's sort of just purely undermining what you should be doing.
CLIENT: I guess I don't I guess I see that things have like I don't know it's temporary happiness. I don't know. I'm always like work out or I study or read or something to make myself feel better. Later it's like so when I think what I have done today, it's kind of like, I've done this and it ","P1-N400A11":"makes me feel better. [0:19:05] And I'm thinking oh, I just I ordered in and spent money but I didn't run. I don't know. Just all sorts of I don't know.
THERAPIST: Like you kind of at the end of a day where you fail to go running and ordered in and spent money obviously on it you kind of don't have anything to show for it? Or you haven't like really invested in yourself?
CLIENT: Right. Or even like I spent a whole day and say like I was tired in the morning. So I just like watched a movie. And then the whole question would be like once that was done, I'm like should I go running? And then I got distracted.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then the whole thing would be like, should I do this? Should I do this? And all the way up until like night I just kind of feel this (inaudible at 0:20:03) or whatever. I mean, it's not like that every time. I'm like sometimes I'm like...
THERAPIST: Like the running, it kind of hangs over your head most of the day.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And you kind of sort of won't be able to quite get your butt out the door to do it. And then will feel like you failed for the entire day.
CLIENT: Well...
THERAPIST: I don't mean you feel like the whole day was a failure, necessarily. But over the course of the day, you sort of like failed to get yourself to do it?
CLIENT: Right. And then I think it's that yea. So I guess yea. I guess it is the failure. I just decided see it as like I didn't I don't know do something good for myself. Or I don't know. Or help (inaudible at 0:21:00). (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, lately and probably it's not in so much in terms of failure and more in terms of like you're sort of unable to take care of yourself or do something good for yourself.
CLIENT: Right. I feel yea, something like that. Because when I get down with kind of like I don't take care of myself or I just I'm like lazy with...
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: ...kind of small things of cleaning and I don't know. But then like the next morning I'm like get a burst of energy and try to do everything. Like super clean and try to do something that I don't know sometimes I get hung up on stuff.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: And what's the bad part or part about not taking care of yourself? [0:22:02] That I mean, it's not that I can't imagine that would be a bad thing. It's just that I can imagine various reasons why it might be? I mean, it could mean you're a terrible person. It could make you sad that you feel ","P1-N400C31":"sort of uncared for by yourself. It could be that, in some way, it makes you a failure if you can't do the things that one should do to take care of oneself. You know what I mean? Like there are sort of all different angles I could imagine. Do you know?
CLIENT: I think it's like yea. I think I'm sad. And I remember like when I used to take care of myself. Like I don't know in high school every morning like I don't know just get up and shower. Like I don't know do it's like I guess yea, just take care of yourself. [0:23:06] And then ","P1-N400C51":"I don't know those things were more routine than now. And I think the sadness and kind of like I should be more like my roommate. Or I should take care of myself. Or just think like I should be more like these people. And I'll look better and I'll feel better if I do those things. But I don't do ","P1-N400C52":"them. Or it's exhausting or something. I don't know. (pause)
THERAPIST: It also sounds like the sadness or how things are now compared to before. And also a sense that you're really not living up to what you should be the way that other females are able to do. [0:24:10] (pause)
CLIENT: I don't know. I think in a lot of in the whole running and just like taking care of myself. Or and kind of like a weird (inaudible at 0:24:35) that I kind of go through. OK, I'm going to run a work and I shower right afterwards or something like that. And then what if I don't run? I'm like ","P1-N400C91":"when am I (chuckling) I don't know. Some days it's like I just struggle with these things. Like should shower on Monday night? But then I'm going to run Tuesday morning or just something stupid like that. [0:25:00] And then get all weirded out and caught up in that stuff. I don't know. Fuck it. I don't know.
THERAPIST: Wait. Is there something about running and showering at work? Or it's mostly like just thinking about like planning a showering motive to when you're going to run and whether you'll actually be able to run and stuff like that?
CLIENT: Yea, it's I guess it's just like I do it to maybe like force myself to run. Like...
THERAPIST: I see. I didn't shower last night. I've got to shower this morning anyway. I'm going to go run. Like or...
CLIENT: Right. Yea. Exactly. And yea. I don't know. Like yea. [0:26:00] And I've also been like I was forced by coming here to go to work in my sweats. (chuckling) And then so I'm forced to work out and then I change into normal clothes or whatever. Yea.
THERAPIST: Wait. You go to work in your sweats but not to work in your sweats. So that like you'd show up there in your sweats and if you're going to do that, then you kind of go running?
CLIENT: Yea. And I mean, and I do that like because when it's done, I feel good. Like I'm...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...I worked out and clean and like wearing new clothes. I don't know.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So I mean, I think it's I mean, I don't think it's like totally negative. But I mean, just I need but sometimes like yea. It's kind of like I don't want to work out. But...
THERAPIST: Yea. I got to sort of feeling like you're kind of getting your butt to the gym in your workout clothes. Like once you managed to do that, it's sort of there's a pretty good chance you're going to be able to work out.
CLIENT: Right. [0:27:04]
THERAPIST: But for some reason, it's I guess really quite a battle with the running.
CLIENT: Yea. I don't know. I just I feel (inaudible at 0:27:22) about it because I think I don't know. I do feel better and I think it helps then...
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:27:37). I don't know. (pause) I'm inspired to be I don't know fit, I guess. But yea. I mean, yea. [0:28:06] I think it comes back to the like that want for me to like use things to come naturally to want to do them and not have to force myself. Or be constantly motivated. ","P1-N400E91":"And I don't know. I mean, it's I want these things for myself because I think that there's some higher good or it'll make me better or something.
THERAPIST: Yea. I mean, (inaudible at 0:28:58) want the motivation to be very natural rather than such a struggle, I guess. That you just feel like doing it and so you do it.
CLIENT: Right. Or I wish I think I'm also a weird perfectionist with when I should run. Like I need to have coffee. And I need something small and it can't be at this time (inaudible at 0:29:35) 2:00 after lunch. Just like I'm weird about it so I want to I think about it constantly. Like when should ","P1-N400ED1":"I go? Like I should go the instant I feel like a little bit energized. (chuckling) I should catch it at the right time. I don't know. So...
THERAPIST: How much is the variance in your mood that relates to whether you kept up with the running as you wanted to over the last few days? [0:30:09]
CLIENT: I think it's affected a lot. Like I didn't I mean, I went to yoga because I didn't run. And I don't know. It's like if I'm more likely to do it if I'm like yea, go to work. Or I'm like I'm in the mind set of being busy than being at home and I don't know feel insane. Or I don't know. (pause)
THERAPIST: And was it like how long do you run for? [0:31:01] How far do you go?
CLIENT: Usually like four or five miles. So 45 minutes. But...
THERAPIST: So like a kind of like you're getting nine or something mile pace?
CLIENT: Yea. I mean...
THERAPIST: How hard are you pushing yourself?
CLIENT: While I'm running?
THERAPIST: Yea.
CLIENT: I don't push actually push myself when I'm running outside I push myself that hard. Or like I mean, I'm giving it a good effort but I'm not like run faster (inaudible at 0:31:45) (chuckling) right?
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: Or more like, "Faster Molly, faster yea." More like, God I can't breathe. On the treadmill I kind of I don't know I definitely run better. It's I guess I'm very different. Most people hate running on treadmills but I can zone out better. [0:32:03] And listen to music and run faster. I ","P1-N401051":"don't know. I guess it's a more controlled setting so I can push myself a little more. But still again, I'm not like must run a seven minute mile every other mile.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I mean...
THERAPIST: You're not real hard on yourself when you're actually doing it.
CLIENT: Right. But I think that was definitely learned. Because I think I said before I used to get really angry if I didn't...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...run the whole time. Or I didn't wasn't I don't know. (inaudible at 0:32:39) or some old person passed me. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: But I don't know. Yea. But oh, (inaudible at 0:32:53). I think also the reason on the weekend I kind of like have trouble making decisions. It's kind of like, well, after that what am I going to do? It's like what am I going to do after I run? Or what am I going to do when I guess maybe after ","P1-N401151":"this TV show or what I'm just kind of like the I'm OK for now but then what am I going to do once it's done? I don't know. So...
THERAPIST: So you kind of have to if you went running and showered or whatever, then you have to face not knowing what to do.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And what would the alternative be there?
CLIENT: If I didn't run or what I would do next? Or...
THERAPIST: What do you do next? [0:34:01]
CLIENT: I don't know. I...
THERAPIST: I mean, is it about sort of calling somebody? You're not calling somebody or if you're not cooking or just feels pretty wide open. You could call somebody. You could read. You could cook. You could (inaudible at 0:34:21).
CLIENT: I think it's more of the like, "Oh, should I call someone? Or will they want to listen to me?" Or the whole with the cooking.
THERAPIST: And with cooking, does that center around sort of, "Is this really actually what I want? And is it really actually healthy?" Stuff like that?
CLIENT: Yea. And yea. [0:35:01] Yea, is this healthy? Or even like I don't know. I wish I could cook like this person. Or I don't know. I can't chop this onion very well. Like yea. (pause)
THERAPIST: Yea, I guess I think I'm starting to see a little bit better how some of this stuff relates to sort of being the sort of person you want to be who does these various things. Who kind of feels it instead of having to force it. [0:36:01]
CLIENT: Right. Who wants to do it and gets pleasure in doing it.
THERAPIST: Yea. It's like you want to feel a desire for I don't know (inaudible at 0:36:16) or something like that. Not to have sort of made a like series of calculations that that's a good thing to cook and eat or something like that. It's like...
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ...when actually feels like that's what you want to do.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And that's what you want to eat and then do it. It's not as much about like pushing yourself to make the best lentils (inaudible at 0:36:39) ever or run as fast as you possibly can. So much as to like feel like you wanted to go running.
CLIENT: Yea, I think it's just I mean, I often will compare myself to other people who are I don't know what I'm reading online. Like what I should eat or do or run. [0:37:05] So I think it's just like me wanting to incorporate those things and to my life. And want them because I think they're...
THERAPIST: Yea. No, that's comes from outside, right?
CLIENT: Right. But yea, but the thing is that I don't know what I want. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: (chuckling) Right. That's I guess that's sort of the rub. Yea.
CLIENT: I mean, I think and there's some like I well, I don't know. I mean, it's not like complete, total I mean, I think oftentimes I really want to go to yoga. And like but like it's not like I don't know. I don't do and prepare. I don't feel or want anything but I don't know. Or like I ","P1-N401431":"was talking (inaudible at 0:37:56) I want sushi and I don't know. So...
THERAPIST: Wait. You mean you feel like sushi but it's too expensive? [0:38:06] Or you just...
CLIENT: Like every yea. Sometimes I do like I guess yea. I do want things. I mean, it's not like all the time but can I get it. But I mean I get the healthiest version I can think of. I don't know. There's stuff like there's things that I enjoy.
THERAPIST: Right. It's not as though there are is nothing you ever want or feel like doing.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You might have a craving for sushi. Or you might really feel like going to yoga.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It's just that there are a lot of times when you when it's not like that. Or when there are things you want to be craving that you're not. Or it doesn't feel you're craving anything really.
CLIENT: And I think it's worse for me (inaudible at 0:39:08) . (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess the other thing that might have something to do with having less structure or then again, having it be more about what you want in a way and also maybe not having the kind of boost that can come from just having been productive at work. Like after a day at work, you've gone to work ","P1-N401551":"and had gotten simply a bunch of stuff done. And sort of...
CLIENT: Another thing too is like I can also like say I'm tired and I haven't gone to the gym at work. And I don't know. I (inaudible at 0:40:01) Vicki (ph) or one of my coworkers and they say, "So did you go to the gym?" (chuckling)
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: That helps.
CLIENT: It does help.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:40:14).
THERAPIST: Sure, as long as you call Vicki (ph) on the phone. Like kind of or similar.
CLIENT: Yea. I just yea. Because I'm having that inner dialogue of, "Oh, I'm tired but maybe I'll feel better. But maybe I'll get a headache from running. And I'm tired." Just whatever. And I don't know. But just kind of output of whatever.
THERAPIST: Yea. That starts it.
CLIENT: Yea. I think that (inaudible at 0:40:48).
THERAPIST: And what was with that?
CLIENT: Oh, that I used to do that all the time with my mom. It's like should I do this? And she would always be like yea. I don't know. [0:41:01]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Just kind of I don't know push myself or whatever. I just did it.
THERAPIST: I see. She'd say like, "Go running. Go do this. Go do more. Do that."
CLIENT: Or yea, or are you having that dialog of what the hell should I do? And she'd be like, "Just do it." I don't know. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: So I guess yea. She'd (inaudible at 0:40:48).
THERAPIST: Yea, there's something about that kind of external encouragement or structure that just really makes a difference.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I mean, in a way like I could imagine for who people wouldn't that wouldn't matter. That yea, they'd be struggling about whether to go running and they'd have to run. Like, "OK, look. Just tell me to go run and I'll do it." They say, "Go running." And then like they ignore it (inaudible ","P1-N401811":"at 0:42:030). [0:42:04] (chuckling)
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But clearly, it's not like that for you. It sticks often.
CLIENT: Right, yea.
THERAPIST: For some reason, in a way that your own kind of sort of commands to yourself don't do.
CLIENT: Right. Maybe I could I just I have to question everything. Like why am I pushing myself to do something? Or I should go running. Or am I torturing myself? I don't know. I'm just kind of like...
THERAPIST: Right. Although I mean, when the other person tells you to do it, they're clearly not more informed.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I mean, I'm sort of kidding around. But like you got yourself but then you ask somebody to tell you and they tell you only because you've asked.
CLIENT: Right. [0:43:01]
THERAPIST: But that makes more sense.
CLIENT: Right. I don't know. Maybe I don't know. That just I don't know. For some reason it's in my mind I'm doing it now.
THERAPIST: Yea, yea. No it look, I don't even think you feel that necessarily. It's sort of it's interesting and I wonder if it's indicative of something although I'm certainly not clear yet what that this strategy works. I mean, I'm glad it does. It's something that can be very helpful.
CLIENT: Right. But I guess when it comes to bigger questions of like med school, grad school...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...no one is going to be like do this. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: (chuckling) Or get you and Vicki (ph) (inaudible at 0:43:48) apply to med school. (inaudible at 0:43:51).
CLIENT: Yea, so but I feel like I wish someone would just tell me what I'm going to do.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, we have to stop for now. So we'll just meet on Thursday, I guess, this week. But then starting next week, we'll do the Wednesdays at 9:15.
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:44:10).
CLIENT: All right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:44:11).
CLIENT: I'll see you Thursday.
THERAPIST: OK.