TITLE: Client "K", Session January 15, 2013: Client and therapist discuss starting analysis, a more intensive form of psychotherapy.
DESCRIPTION: Client and therapist discuss starting analysis, a more intensive form of psychotherapy.
THERAPIST: So, what I thought was this. That, that you might, like, be a good candidate for and benefit from an analysis. What that means is, like, I don't think we talked about this, have we?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So, analysis is an intensive form of psychotherapy where meetings are usually like four times a week and one generally uses the couch as opposed to the chair. Often, like, to complete one, it's a number of years. However, I think it's quite likely, given, you know, where things are at for ","P1-N4000F1":"you in life you wouldn't necessary finish it out in that, you know, there's a good chance you'd move to school to go to school or you'd go to school around here and would be too busy to continue, but, still, even spending some time doing that I think can be quite helpful. Like, it's really not that ","P1-N4000F2":"different from what we're doing now, except for the frequency. And, I think it could help you. I mean, the chance to sort of work on things intensively in that way can make it sort of over time, easier. [00:02:00]
CLIENT: Why do you think, I guess, I would be a good candidate for analysis? [00:06:00]
THERAPIST: Right. Because, partly from what you've said and partly from what I have seen. So, I guess there are two reasons. The first one is part of it, I mean, you said from what I've seen, it seems like you're making use of this. That it's getting a little easier to talk. It's getting a little easier ","P1-N4001B1":"to think about some of the issues you're describing. I know you're still feeling very stuck and kind of paralyzed. Well, not paralyzed, but like stuck and frustrated and so forth, but I, I have a sense that you, like, there's a little more air in the room. Like, it's a, you feel a little bit freer in ","P1-N4001B2":"some ways and our kind of starting to make use of this in, like, to help with that somewhat.
CLIENT: I don't know. [00:07:25]
THERAPIST: In some ways it seems to me, like, and just kind of the way, I don't know how to say it. Like, sort of the way that you're working with things here and kind of able a bit more over time to like get your hands in to them a little bit and I don't know kind of work on them. You know, to make ","P1-N4001F1":"a little bit, make a little more space for yourself to think. That's sort of like that. And you've said that it's helpful, I guess, is the other thing. So, that's sort of one side of it.
CLIENT: I guess how is the method different?
THERAPIST: It's not.
CLIENT: It's not. Okay. It's just the frequency?
THERAPIST: Yeah. So, yeah. I mean I tend to practice, like, pretty more intensive psychotherapy more than once a week and the psychoanalysis is pretty much the same way. [00:11:30]
CLIENT: So, who would, I guess, like what would be some, I guess, like who is a person who wouldn't benefit from psychotherapy? I really wouldn't know. Sorry.
THERAPIST: No, that's alright. Like, well, either somebody who's likely to have a, kind of a bad reaction to a more intensive treatment or analysis. You know, somebody for whom it's likely to stir up things that, you know, that in a way that has become quite counterproductive. I mean, anybody in intensive ","P1-N4002F1":"therapy is going to have upsetting things come up at some point and it, you know, might suck for a few days or a few weeks or something like that. But, you know, then you kind of work through it and that's part of what the work is that you're doing. Do you know what I mean? Some people, you know, stuff ","P1-N4002F2":"gets stirred up and it really is just too overwhelming. It's not something that you can kind of work through and then like be the better for it in a way. But, it's something that just sort of knocks you over and it's kind of a bit more destructive than helpful. So, that kind of person probably does ","P1-N4002F3":"better through therapy than analysis. [00:13:15]
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean I'm willing to try. I mean, I don't. I think my worry is something I haven't even thought about. Yeah. I mean, okay. [00:17:00]
THERAPIST: Okay. Sure. Well, I will, in that case, keep the Thursday time and then I can look for a better time and additional time starting next week?
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Try it out and see what you think and see what happens.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And, let me know if you have other questions. Either now or whenever.
CLIENT: Okay. [00:19:00]
THERAPIST: I guess one other thing I could think to say, because I didn't, you might worry about it. I hope not, but you might. Is I don't think my impressions of your suitability for analysis are likely to change. In other words, like, I don't think in a week or two I'm going to think oh, shit. You ","P1-N400451":"know, geez, yeah. God, boy was I wrong about that one. She really, yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So, you don't have to, this may not help. You don't have to worry about, like, about that. [00:20:00]
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know. Just, I guess, for some reason, I was just thinking about, I don't know, how, like, Woody Allen jokes about it. It's like I don't know. Yeah. I don't know. Other than that, I don't really seem to like coming out to something.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I feel like I kind of forgot we're here. Not so much. Yeah. I guess, the worry that I have or something that I think about is that I still have this like, I guess, image or of like I'm trying to do everything I can or, like, to become, like, I don't know. Like a, someone who's like, you know, ","P1-N4004F1":"perfect and who can handle, like, I guess, emotional things or like, you know, have the, the right thought at, you know, the right time or something like that. And, so my worry is that like, I don't know, that you're not seeing like, I don't know. Like, I used to think, like, therapy was like, you know, ","P1-N4004F2":"the key to, I don't know, perfection or whatever. I don't know, but it's like, like, you know, a cure all, I guess. [00:22:30]
THERAPIST: You're can't see actually?
CLIENT: Right. But, you know, so, I have been. I don't know how to have, like, the right mindset about this whole thing other than maybe it's just helping I guess or, you know, changing the way I think, I guess. You know. Or, yeah. Me not being, you know, so destructive in my thoughts. I don't know. ","P1-N400531":"I don't know if my father will be like well, I'm going four times a week. Why am I, you know, too? I don't know. Right.
THERAPIST: I feel like why isn't everything awesome.
CLIENT: Right. [00:24:00]
THERAPIST: And why I can't sort of handle whatever emotionally comes at me or whatever? Sort of stressful things that you're having to deal with. And it's not quite clear what, what idea about how therapy or analysis helps to substitute for that.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And, one possibility is well, it helps you deal with, I don't know, some of the more negative kind of view of yourself or the way that you're thinking about things or the ways you feel about things. It helps you deal with those.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:25:20]
THERAPIST: Yeah. My impression is you're sort of partly explaining something, but you're kind of confused about or unsure how to think about it at this point and partly asking me how do I think about it?
CLIENT: Right. I don't know. I mean, I don't know if this is like, you know, just like, how like, you know, like magazines describe like this person or something. I don't know. There something to write on a locker or so they, I don't know. So, maybe that's just a hope, I guess, or something, instead ","P1-N400631":"of seeing it as work or... [00:26:20]
THERAPIST: Well, there are a lot of ways to think about how sort of therapy or analysis can help, and it can be different for different people. And, you know, sort of other than at the end of the day you will decide how it's helpful to you and sort of what's beneficial from it and what are the ways ","P1-N400651":"in which it doesn't help or the things that haven't been helpful for you. But, well, I guess I do have some thoughts. Let me ask you first. I'm not really sure I thought. How would you describe how this has helped so far? I mean, clearly, it has not solved the problems you came in to solve. I don't ","P1-N400652":"mean it like that, but what's your impression? [00:28:00]
CLIENT: I don't know. I mean it's just like, like, I just kind of, like, the feelings that I've hated, like, being really low or, you know, kind of frozen and not knowing what to do. Just kind of, like, I don't, like I still feel that way sometimes, but it's not as, I don't know, intense or I don't ","P1-N400671":"know. I just kind of have more knowledge about it that I'm not so I don't know, helpless, maybe? I don't know. Just maybe a better understanding of some of like the perils and thoughts or just like, I don't know. [00:30:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah. That, that kind of story goes together about it seems like. Yeah.
CLIENT: You know, emotional, like, I don't know and like. Yeah, it's helped, but I don't know. Being just, knowing more about what's going on instead of being, you know, just kind of, I don't know, over powered by whatever it is.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah. I think that like probably through the process of having it come up in here, and having the opportunity for both of us to sort of look at it, reflect on it and talk about it. You know, then when you're sort in your life and you start to experience being stuck or feeling really ","P1-N4006D1":"low, you know, you can sort of instead of like kind of half knowing what's going on, or what you're feeling being knocked over by it. You know, you sort of have some more context for it and more of a story about it. And, it's not quite as over whelming. Is that -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Pretty accurate?
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:31:30]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I kind of think that it seems to me a reasonable way to look at how this works and over time, you kind of get further in to the story you kind of see in in sort of deeper and broader ways, you know, like, what the context is and while you're feeling the way you're feeling and how to ","P1-N400751":"understand it and become sort of more able to, like, manage it. Think your way around it or overcome it. Be less affected by it. [00:33:00]
CLIENT: So, yeah, I don't know. I think, yeah, like I can, I mean yeah, personally, yeah, I mean all helps but, you know. Yeah. I guess the hope that the yeah. I don't know. Yeah. I see others people and not much to do.
THERAPIST: So, let me try to follow it. So, you mean that like, so partly you have had a question about kind of how does this work and how can it help? [00:36:30]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: You're also saying, kind of apart from that, that you have a fantasy about what this is going to do for you. That, it sounds like a pretty strong one. You know, though you know it's not accurate in a way.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, I don't know. Yeah. Like, I could see how, yeah, it helps, but I don't know. It's just, I don't know. I mean it's just part of my mentality of like, you know, if I exercise and, you know, eat right, like, I'll I don't know. You know, be someone, you know, I want to be or someone ","P1-N400811":"like her. You know.
THERAPIST: Did the things you're doing then become more like rituals? Probably like OCD rituals. I mean, like, in that if you follow them, then kind of quasi magically you will be perfected? [00:38:00]
CLIENT: No. I don't think it's a ritual. I definitely see them as like work. I don't know. I mean it's the prompt really. Why didn't I give them so much emphasis is because like, you know, like, there's so much. Like, you know, just like articles and like things on the Internet that are kind of like, ","P1-N400851":"oh, you know, exercise. Blah, blah, blah. Like, it helps with memory and, and like all these here.
THERAPIST: You've done some aging and memory and you need to function.
CLIENT: Right. I don't know. I guess, I don't know why I guess, I don't know choose all these things. I mean I like doing them, but not putting too much emphasis on like what they're doing for me. You know. [00:39:00]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: I'd rather. I wish that I could be done with this and think my problems through. You know, things I can't do well. Like, exercise or cooking or something. So, so, yeah. I guess, like, another example is like, like yoga. Like, I used to do it all the time and I haven't been in a while, but I ","P1-N4008D1":"don't know. It's kind of like when I first started going I thought, you know, like, this is great. I guess (inaudible). I thought this is great. Like, I feel better. I changed which I like doing. I guess the magic of it kind of wears off. Yeah. And, so, now I don't really see it as like a something ","P1-N4008D2":"for, I don't know, mental health or whatever just to work out or. [00:40:40]
THERAPIST: I see. It doesn't have the promise it did for a while.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It's not bad things, but it's, it's you're not going to fix everything.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And, are you in to this being something like that?
CLIENT: No. I'm just kind of looking at how I think about all the things that I'm -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Or helping me. Just give me something to do and I'll try and do it the best. I mean. [00:41:10]
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we can finish up for now.
CLIENT: Okay.