TITLE: Client "Ju", Session April 15, 2014: Client discusses some stressful times she's having at work with her colleagues and superiors. Client does not feel appreciated and no one seems to listen to her in meetings where she is bringing up important issues.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses some stressful times she's having at work with her colleagues and superiors. Client does not feel appreciated and no one seems to listen to her in meetings where she is bringing up important issues.
THERAPIST: I had mentioned that (inaudible at [00:00:12]) next week, and I (inaudible at [00:00:13]).
CLIENT: Okay. On the way over I had this, what, this week, next week? And I’m glad that it was next week. So here’s the (inaudible at [00:00:33]) we discussed. I feel breathy, and have felt frustrated with my office mentor. [00:00:56]
THERAPIST: That’s the best way to put it. Yeah.
CLIENT: So Monday there was like a sort of, they sort of, it was a meeting of mentors, mentees, and people in another program, that’s some (inaudible at [00:01:15]). And you know, it was like networking to your advantage, I don’t know, something. So it was, so it was like a little four-person ","P1-N400121":"breakout group with my mentor Laney, and then two other people, one of whom would not, like, was very narrow to what she had to say, which was frustrating. [00:01:52]
THERAPIST: Oppression, is that what you said?
CLIENT: Yes, I said institutionalized and structural oppression. And so the leader was like talking about like power dynamics of like who is in the room with [], and she was like, “I really think that table should be somewhere else.” And at first you just kind of go hmm, and then you think, ","P1-N400181":"“Oh, you’re, hmm, yeah, you’re the president. I’ll just move that table.” And I was like, “Yes.” [00:03:04]
THERAPIST: Homophobia or the part of she being surprised?
CLIENT: I mentioned homophobia at work.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: And whenever I bring that at work, people are like, “At Cambridge?” And then one person took that point in time to talk a lot about how that never happens in her department. Which is Women in Gender Studies, but still I suspect that’s not entirely true. So I kind of feel like ","P1-N400261":"I’m sort of stuck again at this, well, what I actually wanted a mentor for was not. Actually, what I wanted a mentor for was to help me deal with like racism and sexism in the workplace. [00:06:13]
THERAPIST: Tell her—
CLIENT: I could tell her like—
THERAPIST: Ways of talking to her about it and the (inaudible at [00:07:07]?
CLIENT: I don’t know, I’m sort of like, part of me wants to say like, “Look, what I wanted out of a mentor was this, and while you are a very nice helpful person, that’s not what you’re giving me.” And the other part of me is kind of like, “Well, I didn’t ","P1-N400301":"talk about that because you seemed completely uninterested, but I just—” I feel very frustrated and I feel like so tired out that I just don’t really—The program’s almost over, so there’s no point in like dropping out of it, whatever that would mean. [00:07:07]
THERAPIST: Both for the mentorship?
CLIENT: So I had three goals, which I didn’t think were too bad. One was putting up the sign about where the disabled bathrooms are, which is still in progress, or rather, I wrote the sign, and just had a meeting today about how we still can’t put that sign up, nor can we really deal with ","P1-N400361":"until after commencement. [00:09:19]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And they’re just far apart that you can’t like, in a wheelchair, reach back or forward, if you had that much mobility to hold one open, and so you, they’re really hard to get out. Like—
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I helped her get through both of them and then I asked her about it a little bit. And like one of my friends asked if there was like, you know, in a friendship sort of as comedy, I’m like, “Yes, yes I am.” I don’t know what to tell. I’m sort of like, you know, still ","P1-N400421":"working on it. [00:11:01]
THERAPIST: You have to put a sign up?
CLIENT: Yeah, like’s that sort of like the end result of each meeting. I’m like, “Okay, but can I just put a sign up?”
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Just something? Anything? You know, just because there will be special like historical issues and how we should measure everything and do you—
THERAPIST: Wait, measure what?
CLIENT: Like measure the door width, the stall width, (inaudible at [00:11:46]).
THERAPIST: Like the bathrooms have accessible features? Or it does?
CLIENT: Yes. And how successful are those features?
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And I’m just like, “But could we maybe just say we could try?” Like and then today was also well. I mean, we need to plan because if we put descriptive language in for your office, we have to plan to do it for everyone, for all the other offices. I’m just like, “Put, ","P1-N400581":"can we just let them pee?” Like I just kept getting really stuck at the why just, like I don’t know why we need to have an hour meeting to not, race to the second hour-long meeting if I’m not being (inaudible at [00:12:37]). The other people’s, one was to write up some documentation ","P1-N400582":"on captioning and the other was to offer a class on Photoshop. [00:12:56]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Same with the couch thing.
THERAPIST: Or you’ll do it and it will get, you’ll get positive feedback, and then somehow you won’t be able to do anything with it? [00:15:01]
CLIENT: Yeah. Like it’s honestly hard for me to think of not getting some kind of negative feedback or complaints. I guess complaints. Like that’s, yeah, I just can’t think of how I won’t at someone complaining, someone insisting that I’m the techie, therefore I can do ","P1-N400641":"it and they can’t because they’re not a techie, they’re a employee. And yeah, all I can think of is people saying well, like I can’t do it because I’m not a techie and not being willing to do like listen to whatever it is I’m presenting, or do the basic like, can ","P1-N400642":"you read these ten steps? [00:16:09]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It’s like I feel sort of half abandoned and half micro-managed.
THERAPIST: yeah. I think completely unsupported.
CLIENT: Yes. Very much so.
THERAPIST: Probably (inaudible at [00:17:30])?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And guess the other thing like (inaudible at [00:17:48]).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like it’s just making it hard to work on stuff that you kind of only envision going badly. [00:18:06]
CLIENT: Yeah, like if, like I don’t feel like I have a lot of energy and don’t feel like, I don’t feel like there’s anyone being like, “Yeah, you can do it.” But, and it also feels kind of pointless in that like let’s say I could, let’s say I did this ","P1-N4007C1":"Photoshop class. Like I don’t feel like, I don’t feel like anything’s going to really come from doing like. [00:19:08]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it just seems so like oh. I feel so infantalizing and ridiculous.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And the other thing is I think as I’m sitting in the office doing whatever and the student workers who are supposed to help people who are using, learn how to use like Filecut (sp?) or Photoshop or whatever, and Chet and Karl are like, “Yeah, we’re going to,” they have ","P1-N400881":"this vision currently of like redoing part of the office and having it be staffed entirely by students who, you know, because they’re students, just know instinctively how to use these programs. [00:21:07]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But—
THERAPIST: Right. Also comes to me that as though they put quite a lot more faith in the student workers to be sort of helpful and to kind of run things themselves.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Than you.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah.
THERAPIST: You need to be in an office where you’re sitting right across from Chet. You can’t close the door. You can’t like create any sort of private space for yourself. [00:22:06]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And we won’t need to keep an eye on them.
CLIENT: No, that’s very true. I mean, it’s also like I feel like the expectations on student workers, or especially how much technology or software or whatever that they know, and that they could explain, is crazy. [00:22:59]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Like it’s really difficult. There’s all these weird fiddly things.
THERAPIST: So they think they’re just saying, “Oh, that person can basically use Microsoft Word.”
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Oh, they’re just (inaudible at [00:23:38]) paper, they can use Microsoft Word. Oh, they’re young, so they can probably use (inaudible at [00:23:42]) Pro, or Photoshop or something.
CLIENT: Yeah, they just know how to use it. They just you know, walked out and know how to use it. And my other thought was yes, they can sit down and bash their way through, but it’s not really pleasant or efficient or effective.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [00:24:00]
CLIENT: You know, like—
THERAPIST: Or what you want and somebody teaching somebody else, I would think.
CLIENT: Yeah, like forcing your way through is not fun. And so I went to a reference services staffing to talk to them about Photoshop. And
THERAPIST: About Photoshop?
CLIENT: Yes, about teaching them Photoshop. And images, like people were really kind of (inaudible at [00:24:32]) themselves, but one of the things I realized when I was sitting there, I was like, “Oh, this meeting is not the hell’s gate that my staffing,” they just have monthly staff ","P1-N400BA1":"meetings for my department are. Like the other department lets people talk. She, you know, asks a question and lets you answer it. [00:25:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But, and I talked to someone who goes to book meetings, my meetings and breakfast meetings. She’s like, “Yeah, it’s really different. It’s so horrible, and it’s really hard to describe.” Yes, I know.
THERAPIST: Referring to your (inaudible at [00:25:59]).
CLIENT: Like that the, our department, the department meetings that like I have are just so horrible. [00:26:10]
THERAPIST: Like the technical things, or—
CLIENT: Yeah, like I discovered that the three-employee team that who runs the Tumblr, they don’t know how to use Tumblr, they don’t know how to use Photoshop, they don’t know how to resize images, they don’t understand like any of it, and I’m like, “Oh, my God.” ","P1-N400CC1":"So like occasionally when I walk by, they’ll be like, “Karen, how do you do this? How do you do this?” [00:27:58]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Which also makes me feel very embittered and also slightly crazy.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like—
THERAPIST: It doesn’t make any sense.
CLIENT: It doesn’t make any sense. And—
THERAPIST: And I guess yet it seems to everybody else. It doesn’t make any sense to you and yet it seems to to everybody else, like that’s what seems to me to be too crazy making, the ingredients to crazy making.
CLIENT: Yeah. For, and—
THERAPIST: Like there’s nobody else saying, “Well, why doesn’t Karen just do this?”
CLIENT: Yeah, not that I hear. I mean, maybe they are somewhere, but— [00:29:09]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I think that’s also yeah, that’s like, I kind of feel like okay, if you know, if you are aware that I know all these things, why don’t you ask me? Like it’s a combination of like I feel like sometimes I could literally no way for me to use like my knowledge of Photoshop ","P1-N400E61":"at work, which seems so crazy. Or like I got really stalled working on Filecut (sp?), because I also don’t think I (inaudible at [00:30:01]) at work. [00:30:04]
THERAPIST: You say what wouldn’t even work?
CLIENT: Like if Chet said to the (inaudible at [00:30:33]), like “Hey, maybe Karen should be involved in that project that she knows everything about.” It’s unclear to me if that would actually get me involved with projects. Like if, like say if Chet talked to an employee from another ","P1-N400EC1":"group and said, “You know, like have you thought of including Karen on this project?” [00:31:01]
THERAPIST: Like because of something from their side?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or just something would happen and it would fall through?
CLIENT: I feel like I don’t know if they’re would be something that would require follow-through and sort of no one would take responsibility for it, or Chet would just be like, “Well, I suggested it.” Or I feel like the group would sort of say like—
THERAPIST: It’s like a (inaudible at [00:31:46]) signs for the bathroom?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like there’s really no apparent credible reason why you shouldn’t just put them up.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: But mumble mumble will handle it, somehow it’s not happening. [00:32:02]
CLIENT: Right, like I really couldn’t tell you. Like, you know, I could tell you, but I couldn’t tell you why this hasn’t happened, and that’s how I feel about work, I guess, which yeah. Like, and also there is no, if I don’t fulfill these goals, nothing really happens. ","P1-N401021":"I’m just supposed to be motivated to fulfill them, which I’m not feeling motivated any more.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And no one’s really helping me with that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And like I just sort of, like I sort of don’t know what to do, like should I sit down with a manager and say, “Look, all these things suck.” [00:33:05]
THERAPIST: Right. Yeah, it’s something to think about.
CLIENT: It is. [00:35:04]
THERAPIST: Can you remind me what the conference presentation is, I think you told me about it.
CLIENT: It’s about whole person []. It’s bringing like, you know, the whole complete you and your skills and whatever, to the job.
THERAPIST: Right, so doing things that may not be sort of obviously in your usual or direct mission of the office, but that sort of make use of some like other skills that (inaudible at [00:36:47]) patrons we have.
CLIENT: Yeah, and also using it to like stick on your performance evaluation, whatever that you did this form of professional development, that like your work doing volunteer work is kind of professional development because of these reasons. [00:37:06]
THERAPIST: That you don’t have any professional—
CLIENT: So, yeah, so for me, like I’m giving this talk, but I actually am, don’t have professional development funds.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So it’s kind of slightly moot, because—
THERAPIST: Slightly ironic.
CLIENT: Yeah, and also there’s a presentation, like—
THERAPIST: All right. It just seems emblematic of a lot of what you’re describing in that you are trying to contribute, and help people. And are getting nothing for it. And I don’t just mean like that someone should be paying you, or somebody should be like putting up big posters of you ","P1-N4012E1":"in the office, but you know, I think it’s a, not even for you. You don’t even want people who could get like support for your professional development, right, the answer is yes.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. Like I might just take a vacation day to go to a conference.
THERAPIST: Right, just crazy.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:39:00]
THERAPIST: Well I think, and in your mind you’re pretty desperate for some acknowledgement of something about you. [00:42:01]
CLIENT: Yeah, like that would be awesome.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Especially since like, like theoretically, like in my, like so only Chet, just three people, and in theory, like my job is the lowest of them. And so my lazy, being in troublemaking, coworker Harry—
THERAPIST: Who used to (inaudible at [00:42:32])
CLIENT: Yes. And—
THERAPIST: (inaudible at [00:42:34] it again, probably.
CLIENT: Using (inaudible at [00:42:37]), like he, I don’t know. Like weirdly is in some way above me in like the department. And I don’t know. [00:43:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And they’d be like, “Oh yeah, I hate my professor too, or it’s so obnoxious. My professor also made me do greeting cards.”
THERAPIST: Right, like this is all from within your own group.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:44:59]
THERAPIST: This does all make you pretty miserable.
CLIENT: It really is.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at [00:45:42]), I think.
CLIENT: Yeah. I mean, that’s like it’s for me one of the other things is that I’m so miserable that I worry that like I’m not going to get to December, which is so close.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I need to like get my degree so I don’t feel like some kind of, like I kind of want to look for a new job, but I don’t want to look for a new job.
THERAPIST: Right. We need to stop.
CLIENT: Yeah. Okay. See you in two weeks.
THERAPIST: Take care, Karen.