TITLE: Client "A", Session February 25, 2014: Client's wife is traveling for the first time since having their child and he is worried about how it will work out. Client discusses his fear of failing his wife and child.
DESCRIPTION: Client's wife is traveling for the first time since having their child and he is worried about how it will work out. Client discusses his fear of failing his wife and child.
CLIENT: You cold encase it in a soundproof (inaudible at 00:00:08). So both Jennie (sp) and I have gotten in a car since I think last, and driven sort of. Jennie (sp) is going away for a conference, the first time she, or I, has been away since Grayson was born. I’m not certain whether the best ","P1-N4000C1":"thing to do is, I think I’ll probably get, we’ll have a babysitter who can spell me. [00:01:05]
THERAPIST: You talking about Thursday?
CLIENT: I’m sort of deliberating over whether to cancel on Thursday, and we should probably, I mean, you need me to make the call soon.
THERAPIST: When’s Jennie (sp) leaving?
CLIENT: Leaving tomorrow morning.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I mean, it’s basically, the issue is basically kind of how I feel, and if it goes fine, you know, we have two friends, we have a friend coming to stay the night along with me, so it’s not—
THERAPIST: Right. Where I’m going is I had a couple cancellations tomorrow morning.
CLIENT: Oh, I see what you’re saying, so we could substitute tomorrow.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: She’s, yeah, that’s probably not going to work.
THERAPIST: Okay, yeah.
CLIENT: She’s, she’s leaving at 11:45, so she’ll probably leave, it depends upon the morning, I guess.
THERAPIST: The earlier one is at 7:45.
CLIENT: I think that sounds good. I would like to consult her, and make sure she’s comfortable with that logistically. I have to take the car to the auto repair anyway, so that actually might work fine. Let me give you a, call her as soon as I get out of here.
THERAPIST: No problem.
CLIENT: Then I could give you a ring. Failing that, I probably, you know, if we don’t do that, it’s probably safest to cancel, I think.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Because, you know, I don’t want to leave it to the last, can’t leave it to the last minute.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure.
CLIENT: So—
THERAPIST: Let me just write that down here.
CLIENT: So we’ll cancel it now. In other words, we’ll cancel it now and then the open question is whether tomorrow morning works.
THERAPIST: Right. That’s the twenty-seventh. Okay. [00:03:06]
CLIENT: I had a good talk with my sister about a strategy for, I had a couple of good talks. I had a good talk with Jennie’s (sp) stepdad, I may not have mentioned. He wasn’t like enormously helpful, but you know, it’s like every time I sort of verbalize, vocalize my kind of perception ","P1-N4003E1":"of, you know what I’d like to be doing and where it’s going, but it feels a bit more comforting, it seems a bit more mine, you know. So and I had a nice talk, very nice talk with my sister.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: So, I mean, I guess I’m a little worried about, sense this, a little bit, as I set up my set of obligations. [00:04:06]
THERAPIST: Well that’s great.
CLIENT: It was sweet. But, you know, I do find myself kind of reflexively feeling some stress about just being kind of subordinated. You know, the stress about Jennie (sp) having a place and me not having a place. Stress about being, you know, cast in the role of this kind of you know, servant, or facilitator. ","P1-N4004E1":"[00:08:08]
THERAPIST: Oh, that’s fantastic.
CLIENT: So yeah. It’s good. I sent my uncle the very concise synopsis of that stuff I dug up. And he didn’t know anything about it, nothing. And, you know, again, I think it’s probably relatively significant that episode on his mother’s side, so it’s kind of interesting. ","P1-N400561":"He’s going to put me in touch. There’s apparently a Providence branch of the family, so if he’s in touch with one of the cousins, so we can fill up the family tree. [00:10:08]
THERAPIST: Oh, good. I think you’re feeling sort of in a way, kind of more open about, and less avoidant of the work stuff than sometimes in recent months.
CLIENT: I don’t know, I guess I’m getting.
THERAPIST: It’s obviously, like talking to more people, and feeling good about (inaudible at 00:12:12). [00:12:12]
CLIENT: Oh, yeah, no, I mean, these have been dates that are longstanding, so if that’s true, and I wouldn’t say I talk to a lot of people, and I did talk to a couple of people completely unproductively right after, right after I quit, and the (inaudible at 00:12:28), so I don’t know. ","P1-N400621":"I mean, I feel better about it. I don’t feel as fucked up about it at the moment. I think the concept of, you know, getting something very low-key and having projects work that I’m doing that’s unrelated feels very sound and appealing to me. You know, something in the admissions department, ","P1-N400622":"whatever. [00:13:00]
THERAPIST: What frightens me a little bit is I don’t know what went into your thinking about being in an admissions department in particular, but—
CLIENT: Ah, that’s generic, but maybe there’s something.
THERAPIST: Yeah, whatever. I guess what I thought was interesting is like you’re reading people, doing applications a lot.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, yeah, you mean, something that was difficult for me.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah.
CLIENT: Maybe, yeah. Why not?
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: I mean I guess, again, this is not, that was purely meant to be. [00:16:00]
THERAPIST: I’m glad they want to keep her. That’s a good thing, I would imagine.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. No, she’s gotten a lot of nice validation of that sort. They know they fucked up with the maternity leave, and something like this obviously has the potential to make somebody pretty significantly so. Yeah, I feel less fucked up about it than I have in a long time. I haven’t ","P1-N400821":"yet done anything about it, mind you, so maybe the fucked up feeling will return. Again, I have this kind of sense of foreboding that, you know, that whatever.
THERAPIST: It does seem to me, as you said, you haven’t of that many people. [00:19:10]
CLIENT: Yeah, or anybody outside my family.
THERAPIST: Right, but it does sound a little more opened up.
CLIENT: Possibly. I mean, I guess, yeah. I guess, I mean, at some level, this inquiry or inquisition into why, what in the hell is going on is a little bit academic, as it were. I don’t know. I don’t, you know, I keep on coming back to this episode where I was on the stairs at the (inaudible ","P1-N4008A1":"at 00:19:50) library. I don’t know what to say about it, and I don’t know how to get at it, you know? And it just feels like such a, you know, such a kind of primeval mystery. [00:20:01]
THERAPIST: Sounds like a very good review.
CLIENT: What’s that?
THERAPIST: Sounds like a very good review.
CLIENT: Yes, the performance review was, he’s not getting fired. Yeah, you know, that’s kind of at this point, the proof of the pudding, that’s the eating, the eating. Eating is not really kind of this inquiry, but it sure would be nice. It would be nice, nice to have a (inaudible ","P1-N400961":"at 00:21:45) to it. And basically, if, you know, I were to find a good situation, I would feel like we’re done, you know. [00:22:03]
THERAPIST: What is it in particular about what you would feel in the dark?
CLIENT: I don’t know. Just kind of weird. The level of distress, the degree of contradiction and inhibition, and the amount of disruption that it’s caused, whatever it is. [00:22:57]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess. Right, well I think that’s kind of very often the thing for you. I mean, with, I think the writing provides a pretty sort of clear example where you suggest like the issue isn’t as one might expect it to be coming up with one narrative that seems just right. [00:27:09]
CLIENT: I’m not clear on the difference between the two of those. Worries about—
THERAPIST: Well like with you have felt at moments, this is sort of the most recent iteration of this, like, you know, Jennie (sp) hasn’t been, you haven’t felt this all the time, but there have been a few moments where you felt like even though you’ve been skeptical that it’s ","P1-N400AE1":"you and not really coming from her at all, that she’s sort of taken her work more seriously and not sort of made enough space for your work and this and that. I know this is not what you said about the conversation today, but—
CLIENT: I was feeling that last week. [00:29:00]
THERAPIST: Right, and that yeah, and I think some other point, and you know, that kind of pushes a button for you. I mean, and then the other one is more like your worry that you mentioned today, of failing, fucking up, letting Jennie (sp) and Grayson down, not being there for them.
CLIENT: The second order problem caused by the first order problem.
THERAPIST: I actually think they’re two different, well the question are they two different problems or are they the same problem?
CLIENT: I’m worried about reacting to the first problem by, with a response that makes the second problem. I think, I mean, you know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess that is. I had been thinking, you know, that one is a mom problem, the other is a dad problem, for similar shorthand. You know, like, you know what I mean? [00:30:05]
CLIENT: I’ve had this thought at various junctures myself, so I can proudly insult you for posing it. But it does sound very Freudian.
THERAPIST: But yeah, you’re right, I think it can kind of mix together.
CLIENT: Well, you know, as mom and dad mixed together to create me. Well, yes. That is, I think that’s kind of our working conception. So I’m a little lost on—
THERAPIST: Why I said that?
CLIENT: Well yeah. I just kind of got lost. I’m a little tangled up. So what does it mean that these things are, these are the two problems? Oh, that’s right. these are the two things that get in the way of, for example, writing. Kind of inhibition and lostness in space and time that comes ","P1-N400C41":"about as a result of at least intersection of these two anxieties. [00:31:22]
THERAPIST: There’s, no there’s something that I’m not following. I think I get what you’re saying about your cognitive style. The piece that I’m not following is so, like with the clothes, it doesn’t sound—
CLIENT: What’s the chaos?
THERAPIST: Well, it doesn’t sound like there was a problem. I mean, there’s a problem that you involved in together go through them, but there was not a period of inhibition as I, here. I mean, you know, you decided you wanted to do this, you sort of went about it in your way, you didn’t ","P1-N400DC1":"wind up having time to do it, but I haven’t gotten a sense from what you said so far, that you’re like, you know, sitting on it for three weeks and frustrated and tense and—
CLIENT: And there’s nothing wrong with it, per se.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean that sounds different to me than like—
CLIENT: I see what you’re saying. [00:39:58]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, that’s why I was asking, because I didn’t know that there was some way that it was that I failed to understand.
CLIENT: I mean, I guess I’m bringing it up now, not because I particularly thought it through in particular, but because right before I came here we had that conversation, and so—
THERAPIST: Another example would be you know what you said about your writing process. Again, maybe there’s something I’m not understanding, but you know, in a way you do. You basically pile everything in the middle of the room, and then I assume you kind of organize it and put it where ","P1-N400EA1":"it goes, like that. That doesn’t sound like a problem. I mean, the problem, as I understand it, it when you can’t do anything.
CLIENT: I guess what I’m trying to, and yes, this is helpful. I guess what I’m trying to say is that I feel in some sense like I keep, like at some level, and I’m kind of keeping the inhibition with me on the assumption which as you point out, maybe, you know, countermanded by all ","P1-N400EC1":"of these examples, keeping it around on the assumption that I would just not be me if I didn’t have it. [00:41:21]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think it’s like what somebody who’s manic says. You know, well, I mean, it’s really part of who I am. I don’t want to tamp it down because then I wouldn’t feel like me, if that’s what you mean.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Psychotics who don’t want to take their meds often say, “Well it’s the meds that’s causing the psychosis.” That’s why I was confused.
CLIENT: Oh, I see. Okay. Well I defer to your clinical judgment.
THERAPIST: I’m just trying to get it straight in my head.
CLIENT: Manic depressive’s good.
THERAPIST: So I guess there’s something that feels linked between inhibition and then putting everything in the middle of the room and organizing it.
CLIENT: Yeah. That is definitely true. And, you know, like who knows whether I’m just stretching. [00:43:05]
THERAPIST: Okay, so I think I see the light more clearly now. So, for example, with your writing, with the novel, you might say that you’re in the getting everything together phase now, and you’re worried that you could remain at that phase forever.
CLIENT: Phase, you know, ad infinitum, right.
THERAPIST: And never sort of get the story organized.
CLIENT: Yeah. write the story out, and choose from the, you know, the various possible adventures, yeah, definitely. We’re probably coming close to the end. All right.
THERAPIST: Yeah, just think about tomorrow morning.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, let me give Jennie (sp) a ring and see what she’s feeling.
THERAPIST: And if that’s not good, we’ll be next Tuesday.
CLIENT: Next Tuesday, yeah. Okay, talk to you soon.
THERAPIST: Great news about Grayson’s checkup.
CLIENT: Thank you, thank you. See you soon.