TITLE: Client "A", Session February 20, 2014: Client discusses a near death experience he had while driving in bad weather. Client discusses how he and his wife are handling their responsibilities and the fact that her job is paying the rent.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses a near death experience he had while driving in bad weather. Client discusses how he and his wife are handling their responsibilities and the fact that her job is paying the rent.
CLIENT: So hey, sorry about Tuesday. Yeah, it ended up taking us seven hours to get from Stamford, and we had a near-death experience, genuinely.
THERAPIST: Wow, glad you’re okay.
CLIENT: Yeah, me too, me too. I’ve been chewing on it since Tuesday night, so I’d like to talk about it. So I’d driven the six and a half hours of whatever, and we got onto the highway, and we’d been complaining very very bitterly about the quality of the highways in Rhode Island, ","P1-N400101":"shortly after the snowfall must have happened. So it wasn’t, as far as I could see, it wasn’t like a blizzard, but they’d gotten, I don’t know, four inches, three inches. [00:01:06]
THERAPIST: Right, traffic.
CLIENT: And it was bought out recently by Google, and has noticeably deteriorated, for whatever reason. But at any rate, it told us to go on a highway that we’d taken before, and that’s fine. But it wasn’t plowed, so we’d assumed that you know, the application was just not functioning ","P1-N400161":"properly, and we cut back to the freeway, and it wasn’t plowed, so basically the freeway was completely unplowed. [00:02:00]
THERAPIST: I’m sorry. That sounds like eighty-four. Were you on that?
CLIENT: We were on, was it eighty? We were on ninety-five, and then there’s a choice of whether to go by the coast, which in retrospect, would have been better because it melted faster, or to go just a little bit inland and connect with ninety, just before ninety-five.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Anyway, so like basically almost all of the way to Connecticut, the freeway was completely unplowed with four inches of slush on it, and it was really hairy.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I bet.
CLIENT: And I was completely fucking exhausted, and the kid was, he’s an amazing kid. You know, he had a couple moments of fussing, but basically he was okay. The cat, you know, didn’t say much. The cat was in the car with us. So we get on the highway, and to our surprise, and to our surprise, ","P1-N400221":"it’s a little bit better, not significantly. I’ve never seen like significant buildups of snow on the highway. It was like they’d run out of salt or something all across the eastern seaboard. [00:03:09]
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: And then, you know, at that point I should have just slowed down and gone thirty in the right-hand lane. [00:04:04]
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And I couldn’t see anything, you know, it was like the windshield, everything in the car was completely obscured. It was like I was driving with my eyes closed. And you know, I tried to break in a stable way and we went into a skid, and we fishtailed all the way around the highway, did ","P1-N4002E1":"a three sixty, and finally I got control of the car, and somehow miraculously no cars were passing at the time. I don’t know how else to describe it, you know. [00:05:01]
THERAPIST: I’m glad you’re okay.
CLIENT: Yeah, well, I mean, it’s completely random chance that I, that we’re not dead. Completely random chance. And Jennie (sp) actually, she (inaudible at 00:06:01), she asked a colleague, “What should I do with that?” What about this? I guess this is where people find God, ","P1-N400341":"or whatever. [00:06:10]
THERAPIST: How much has it been on your mind?
CLIENT: I don’t think I’m obsessing about it in a way that would suggest like you know, significant PTSD. It was traumatic, but it’s funny. I mean, and I don’t know whether this is just, it didn’t feel like, like I didn’t feel the kind of adrenaline rush that is usually ","P1-N4003A1":"associated ex post facto with PTSD. In other words, I don’t want to say that I was calm, I was obviously freaked out, but I didn’t like, you know, I wasn’t shaking. [00:07:12]
THERAPIST: Your uncle with his mother.
CLIENT: My uncle with his mother, and my uncle with our son. So it’s kind of interesting. I mean, he sent a very nice loving e-mail, so it was nice. He’s just happy that I’m becoming engaged with my rabbinical ancestors. So the big, we had a very nice visit with Jennie’s (sp) ","P1-N4004A1":"mother and stepfather. Part of the point of the visit was to talk and, I don’t know, it was nice. We had a very nice conversation. He was, he was encouraging and helpful, and I think, I guess, you know, maybe it’s more important symbolically, and substantively. He gave me a few pieces of ","P1-N4004A2":"advice. He was kind of a mid-level executive in an IT company. [00:14:03]
THERAPIST: I guess I’m not yet sure what to say.
CLIENT: Yeah, me neither. Trying to find a thread from Thursday as we are trying to think of what to say, and coming up empty. [00:18:58]
THERAPIST: You’re losing me a little bit.
CLIENT: I’m losing you a little bit. No, I just, so you have an artistic conception, say. Imagine you have an artistic conception and you know, you want talk about springtime, because you’re Vivaldi. And you know, there’s a concerto form, and it has certain instrumentation, and you ","P1-N400641":"know, you need to eat, so you need to sell it so, you know, you can’t go way fuck out into atonality, given the quality of 1700 or whatever was not very susceptible to it. [00:23:18]
THERAPIST: They’re not going to pay you for that.
CLIENT: Yeah, so you know, you have a conception and you just make it work. And that, and in some sense you kind of can’t produce art that’s outside, you know, the impressionistic tendrils of thought that you might have unless you have these constraints. So, you know, constraints are, for ","P1-N4006A1":"example, when there are really bad and dangerous weather conditions, you don’t go over thirty-five. You stay in the right-hand lane, and if somebody wants to pass you on the right, you just slow the fuck down. [00:24:02]
THERAPIST: And I guess how I understand that is, sometimes he always kind of did what he wanted, and didn’t subordinate, and sometimes what he wanted, to the need of the family.
CLIENT: Yeah, I have a slight, yeah, I mean, I have a darker way of putting what you just did, which is to say that, you know, there were some parts of the universe that were very unsusceptible to what he wanted. You know, United States of America, the world economic system, et cetera. [00:26:08]
THERAPIST: No, I don’t either.
CLIENT: I don’t think that he didn’t care about our feelings, I don’t think that he didn’t have a sense of [00:27:01]
THERAPIST: To pursue the kinds of things he did anyway.
CLIENT: A sense of obligation. He would not have, you know, if he were, and truly didn’t care, he wouldn’t have bothered to, you know, resuscitate our family. Clearly that was important to him at some level, and he felt, you know, he felt enough contrition that, you know, he was willing ","P1-N4007C1":"to kind of subject himself to our judgment. And yet, not fully. So yeah. But it is, it is darker to think that, you know, he only asserted himself successfully with people who were unwilling to assert themselves against him, unwilling or unable to assert themselves against him. [00:28:00]
THERAPIST: Are you referring to—
CLIENT: Jennie (sp), time.
THERAPIST: And work?
CLIENT: And work. I mean, this novel is important to me in the ways that we’ve discussed briefly. It’s important to me in the sense of trying to see what I can do as a writer. It’s important to me on a number of different levels. I think it’s also actually an important novel. ","P1-N400861":"I mean, I think the content is actually important, and can be importantly expressed. [00:29:21]
THERAPIST: About it, you mean about content or—
CLIENT: About what it is that I’m writing, what the content is. I don’t know, I don’t know. I mean, I feel as if the, there’s an implicit sense that, you know, it’s really kind of a hobbyist’s lark. Maybe I’m wrong. Maybe it’s just a, you know, a really ","P1-N4008E1":"zero sum, it feels like a zero sum game to her. [00:31:05]
THERAPIST: I guess you’re a little worried about it.
CLIENT: I’m, as I say, I’ve historically been bad at these negotiations. [00:32:02]
THERAPIST: Well, I mean, you’re bringing it up here, so. [00:34:00]
CLIENT: I don’t feel like that, no, at all. Although, yeah, I mean, there are moments.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I don’t imagine that you think, like that you really think, in some broad way Jennie’s (sp) going to steamroll over you. That doesn’t sound like how you guys operate at all. [00:35:08]
CLIENT: There’s a kind of magical thinking, I guess, involved in my, I don’t know, the way that I set it up in my head, often, in which, you know, there’s a juncture, or a junction and you know, you’re walking down the road and you come to the junction, and if you go down one ","P1-N400A41":"road, then you know, the relationship is such and such. And once you pass that junction, you know, you have to go down either one road or another, do you know what I mean? In other words, you know, if you don’t intervene, then you’ll be subordinated forever after. You know, it’ll just be over.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And the next time, you know, it’s a little bit easier to say, “Well, you know, this is what’s paying our rent for now, so I’m—”
THERAPIST: Yeah, you sort of get paved over.
CLIENT: Yeah, like, but just a sense of permanency, and I think that some of, some of the, frankly, counterproductive energy which ultimately probably underlies these weird brownouts, you know, which I just cannot think, I can’t read, I can’t write, I can’t do tasks that are right ","P1-N400AC1":"in front of me. [00:37:20]
THERAPIST: What do you got?
CLIENT: So maybe nothing, maybe useful, or relevant, or add interest, just. We had this difficult, you know, this, I don’t know, traumatic or scary event, and I went out drinking with my friend, and you know, I had a bit. I actually lost my wallet in the process, which is a bummer. But whatever, ","P1-N400B21":"and I came home with, a quarter to one. Jennie (sp) and Grayson were in bed, and I crawled into bed, and I had sort of a pre-hangover, and whatever, it was fine. You know, I didn’t happen to have like nine beers, but I probably had four drinks. And I woke up the next day and it was kind of hard ","P1-N400B22":"to get up, and I was tired, and Jennie (sp), it was Jennie’s (sp) long day because they switched the Wednesday schedule for the Monday schedule. [00:38:58]
THERAPIST: Oh, the cards.
CLIENT: Sorry. Yeah, I had four, four cards in it.
THERAPIST: Right, sure.
CLIENT: And I had to cancel them all and get replacements sent to me. And, you know, the credit cards is not a big deal, you don’t have to pay for it, but somebody uses your debit card somehow, then, you know, I take it that if you do it within twenty-four hours, it’s fine, but if you don’t ","P1-N400BC1":"do it within twenty-four hours, you could be liable.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And you might be liable anyway, and so you really you do well to just get rid of it quickly. And all day I kept on trying to do it, and I couldn’t do it. It was like those brownouts. [00:40:08]
THERAPIST: Yeah. What I was thinking when that thought came to you was that maybe one of the brownouts you’re bringing the stuff up here not just this last association but before, you know, you’re saying, yeah, couples therapy. [00:42:09]
CLIENT: Unfair assignment.
THERAPIST: I mean, in the same way that you might get an unfair assignment at a job, you know.
CLIENT: Unfair assignment.
THERAPIST: Look, let’s talk about the terms of this relationship.
CLIENT: With the universe, yeah.
THERAPIST: We have to stop for now.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, okay. All right. Okay, so I’ll see you on Tuesday.
THERAPIST: On Tuesday, yeah.
CLIENT: Very good. I think we can.
THERAPIST: Thank you, you too, okay.