TITLE: Client "A", Session February 13, 2014: Client discusses more stories from his family's past and the trajectory of his father's life. Client is adamant that he is not his father and plans on never becoming the kind of man and parent his father was.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses more stories from his family's past and the trajectory of his father's life. Client is adamant that he is not his father and plans on never becoming the kind of man and parent his father was.
CLIENT: My mother got on a train at eight thirty or so, going to Pittsburgh where apparently (inaudible at 00:00:18), and very few people are (inaudible at 00:00:23), find out how she is going to get to my sister’s.
THERAPIST: Oh, that’s fantastic.
CLIENT: It was really wonderful, very, very moving. So her, she’s still distracted and, you know, the few moments of tension really had more to do with that than anything else, but yeah, no, it was nice. So anyway, she, I mean, I think I’m one to elicit some family narratives for all sorts ","P1-N400161":"of reasons, artwork as well as this other stuff. [00:03:00]
THERAPIST: I’m sorry, is this your dad’s dad, or—
CLIENT: My dad’s dad. So all my dad’s family, my mom’s family, they were all from like, they were all from (inaudible at 00:03:53), their own settlement. So it’s a seven-hour car ride to everybody’s house, all of the (inaudible at 00:04:01), all of the cities, you know, ","P1-N4001C1":"everything is in, you know, a radii, a circumference, rather, about seven hours by car. [00:04:10]
THERAPIST: And you’re about how old?
CLIENT: I’m about, I’ve five to ten. He has an affair with a graduate student who is part of this sort of radical revolutionary cell, as they thought of themselves, in the industrialized western Connecticut. [00:17:15]
THERAPIST: This is where you’re going like an hour to school.
CLIENT: An hour and a half to school. Then, I guess, finances were so bad that he had to either put up, no basically, the school told him either put up or shut up. You know, if you want to keep tenure, then you’ll come back and teach, so they moved back to Hamden. So this is where the story picks ","P1-N400401":"up, and this is where I garbled an important clock element. [00:18:01]
THERAPIST: I’m sorry to keep asking, you’re about how old in Hamden?
CLIENT: Hamden, I’m first two years of high school, so fourteen, fifteen. And I was really unhappy. And apparently, it was really tough, this is what I heard this visit. It was really tough for my dad in, at Simmons. And he didn’t want to stay, so two years after we get there, he’s ","P1-N400461":"like, “I’m going to die if I don’t get back to San Diego.” He was having all these subtle symptoms that he later ascribed to, you know, (inaudible at 00:18:37), which is not completely inconceivable since, you know, it is a very slow-developing cancer. But anyway, he’s ","P1-N400462":"clearly stressed out and he was sad that his friends had graduated or left or decided to, or I mean, realize. This is like 1987, so Communism is just completely disintegrating, so you know, that’s part of the story, I suppose, too. [00:19:02]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: We don’t interact that way, that’s the last thing that I would want to be in, and, you know, the outcome, if she were to be her and I were to be me and still behave in this way, or recapitulate these kinds of interactive patterns would be that we wouldn’t work. That’s ","P1-N400541":"clear, you know?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It just wouldn’t work, so I have to. Somehow that means I have to apply things. Somehow that means I have to get over whatever the aversion, you know, that was represented by that vignette. [00:23:10]
THERAPIST: Are you scared?
CLIENT: Am I scared? I’m scared about, I’m oddly not scared about doing it, I’m scared about, it’s like what’s scary to me is the abstract elements of it, and not the concrete ones. Somehow I was saying that it’s a weird, you know, dichotomous state of being, but, ","P1-N4005E1":"you know, when I’m in this very heavily symbolized, you know, realm where family just kind of recapitulates itself, you know, ad infinitum, and something that happens in 1933 is, you know, causally implicated in everything. [00:24:18]
THERAPIST: Okay, so I think that for one thing, this makes it clearer to me anyway, although it may have already been somewhat clear to you, the relation between the moment in the library on the stairs, and the thought about our work together as well in that you’re worried that sort of the work ","P1-N400701":"that really matters to you, in a way, is going to get taken away. [00:32:17]
CLIENT: I don’t know, except to say that I almost said, you know, that I almost made that connection explicitly as I was talking at the very end of the last discourse, so we’re thinking along the same wavelength.
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah. [00:33:03]
CLIENT: Yeah, no, I didn’t understand what you were saying. The zero sum game between our discussions and writing it down on the page, is that what you were?
THERAPIST: Something like that. I mean, there seems to be a zero, how about this?
CLIENT: I think not at all. I mean, I see them as completely complementary, very consciously and explicitly so. I, you know, like I say, I guess we’re making, you know, they’re making transcripts of these sessions, which are scooping my work to some degree, but live long and prosper. I don’t ","P1-N4007C1":"know. I mean, I’m excited to explore these things, I’m exploring them for, you know, narrative purposes, because I’ve always known that I would want it. [00:34:03]
THERAPIST: No, that all makes sense.
CLIENT: I don’t see as a tension even between them, I see them completely complementary to me.
THERAPIST: Right. In that way I, that completely makes sense to me, and I follow and so forth. But still—
CLIENT: Do you mean that if we succeed and I am employed again, that I won’t have time to write? [00:34:57]
THERAPIST: Maybe, or that it feels like whatever somehow the way that that matters to you, or something like that, as long as you get taken away. I guess here’s how it seems to line out. I was thinking in terms of kind of like the zero sum metaphor as well.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Which it seems to me like kind of another angle on, or provides another angle on your worry about kind of being used in the work environment.
CLIENT: Yes, and that has been very, you know, consciously part of my reflection on this. I think this is a crucial point for me, and a real revelation for me, and, you know, it comes out of that story about the honeymoon. You know, the zero sum is bullshit.
THERAPIST: Yes, it is.
CLIENT: You know, this construction that either you have, you know, great work or you have, you know, just bullshit, shitty work. [00:36:05]
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure. [00:37:01]
CLIENT: You know, my, at some level, I’m sympathetic to being resentful at, you know, having to be the caretaker, you know, despite doing completely different things at the time, because one is an unmarried woman. And that’s bullshit, right? And yet, basically what she was saying was, “You’re ","P1-N400981":"not married yet,” or something to that effect, you know. The fact that it was my grandmother’s honeymoon could not have been an unimportant in that transaction, and the basically the conclusion that she drew from it, you just, you don’t, you only have one choice. Either to do it all, ","P1-N400982":"or just to do this, have this very small uneventful, uninteresting life. Is not, it’s not true, and it’s certainly not true in my relationship, my relationships in my home. I’ve succeeded in creating, you know, a life with somebody that doesn’t require that. [00:38:06]
THERAPIST: Yeah, absolutely.
CLIENT: And it’s going to require some sacrifice of me, and one of the things I’m going to have to sacrifice, you know, is my comfort, I think, for the next couple of months in terms of doing things that are difficult to me, but I don’t see as a zero sum game and I kind of reject it, ","P1-N4009E1":"and I think it’s in some ways a wonderful moment that would have been completely impossible if my mother weren’t living with us for a month. A wonderful moment when I can kind of see that clearly.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it has bearing on this relationship.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I’m trying to figure out how it fits, because I guess when you have these moments of sort of concern or one of the, one type of moment of worry or concern you had about things between you and I is that, you know, and you have some sort of, clearly a fantasy hypothetical, like ","P1-N400A41":"I’m using you. [00:39:22]
CLIENT: I think you’re usually the one who articulates this fantasy and not me, so—
THERAPIST: You’ve agreed with it on occasion.
CLIENT: I have. There’s something there, but I just want to specify that this is a, it’s a construct. It’s not like the way that I interact in the world. [00:40:09]
THERAPIST: I think it has the same kind of currency, in a way, as what you’re talking about a couple minutes ago when you say, “Look, I reject this hypothesis, or this view of the world, that you get either one or the other. Of course that’s bullshit,” which I think you know ","P1-N400AE1":"full well to be true, but you have often acted otherwise. There’s some kind of—
CLIENT: Well, it’s a little more—
THERAPIST: Yeah, probably.
CLIENT: It’s a little more complicated than that, and again, I come back to this moment like this fateful moment in many peoples’ lives, as it turned out, when my grandfather had a choice.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And he didn’t manage his relationships well. And if you lock yourself into relationships where these are the terms, then it becomes much easier the next time. And I think it probably did. [00:41:06]
THERAPIST: Absolutely. And I mean, I would say I guess in my mind, precisely one of the ways this relationship can be useful is to look at how those things come up, and sort of being able to connect them with the assumptions, for example, or the fantasies, you could say, you have about relationships. ","P1-N400BE1":"Then you can step back and say, “What the fuck? It’s not that way.”
CLIENT: Yes, but until you have a good one, you just keep doing this over. I mean, there are just so many relationships that I think back of, particularly in my professional life where this really became the, it became the dynamic. [00:43:07]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But there are both, you know, both kind of analytical lenses can be productively used, both the lens in which that’s really the way the relationship is in reality and the way in which that’s the way that I see things because I’m so sensitized to this kind of way of interacting. ","P1-N400C61":"I think we’re up, so—
THERAPIST: Yeah, we should stop.
CLIENT: Yeah, I see that. But we’ll pick it up on Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Sounds good.
CLIENT: All right, Marshall.
THERAPIST: Take care.
CLIENT: You too. Have a safe drive.
THERAPIST: Thank you, you too. Have a good trip.
CLIENT: Thank you, thank you.