TITLE: Client "A", Session February 11, 2014: Client discusses the idea of shame and scandal after discovering a very in depth story about late family members.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses the idea of shame and scandal after discovering a very in depth story about late family members.
CLIENT: So, you posed the question, I think, on Thursday, about whether we could unearth something more than I’ve forgotten what the hypothetical, we had an idea, and I suggested some, you know, sort of vague historical explanation for this tension that we’ve been discussing for a week or ","P1-N4000C1":"two. And I think where we left it was that I would think on it a little bit. You pushed me a little bit to think some more. [00:01:04]
THERAPIST: Was I wondering like what the fantasy was in the present with that? Am I—
CLIENT: No, you were wondering, I had said, I had suggested that there was something about my dad that I really want to set it up again. [00:02:08]
THERAPIST: Oh yeah, now I remember.
CLIENT: Kind of internal debate, I guess, between you know, the part that, or layer of personality that was kind of grossed out by this, and you know, we correlated this with my reaction to, you were talking about our work.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And my kind of yearning for it. I said, it was obvious, and then I thought very casually, I think, ultimately, that you know, one issue might be that, you know, it’s sort of grossed out, let down, disappointed, hurt by my father’s sort of disintegration. [00:04:02]
THERAPIST: What is it?
CLIENT: It’s a, you know, it’s an eighteenth-century text whose main claim to fame, I think the reason most people refer to it, is that it has a genealogy that, a specific and concrete genealogy, spurious or no, from Rashi (sp), you may have heard, to himself. [00:08:12]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So the story, as I’ve reconstructed it, is as follows. The grandfather, the great great grandfather in question, he’s working, gets his ordination. He’s kind of a prodigy. He serves in a couple of really horrible struggles as Rabbi. You know, I mean, just like, one of them ","P1-N400381":"was plowed under by the Nazis, one of them is just, you know, all of the, I think, almost all of the Jews there were killed, and you know, the rest, most of them are scattered. [00:12:56]
THERAPIST: And your great great grandfather—
CLIENT: And my great great grandfather marries his daughter, so he’s now his son in law, yeah, and he has five children by her, and then she dies, okay? So he’s set up and he, you know, his wife dies, his father in law, famous father in law has died long since, and so he marries again. [00:14:00]
THERAPIST: Whatever.
CLIENT: Anyway, we’re getting there. So, he’s a, you know, increasingly responsible rabbi, I don’t think the chief rabbi of the town, but, you know, maybe, for twenty-eight years, during which time he had, he goes through three wives, okay? His, I don’t know when his second wife, ","P1-N400441":"oh I do know when his second wife died based on things that his youngest daughter, who is involved in the lawsuit, said in her hoped-for rebuttal article. [00:15:13]
THERAPIST: There’s one more child and a wife in between?
CLIENT: No, no, no, okay, so, I’m sorry I’m not telling the story as well as I ought to be, but so (inaudible at 00:15:36) is born, the only child born to the second wife. At some point, I believe when she was very young, she was, her mother died. He remarries for the second time to the ","P1-N4004A1":"third wife, so this wife has borne his last two children, (inaudible at 00:15:57), surviving children. [00:15:59]
THERAPIST: And they worked in a (inaudible at 00:19:15) industry?
CLIENT: Well, you know, they signed off on the (inaudible at 00:19:20) of particular butchers because there was not yet really an organized (inaudible at 00:19:25) industry at this point. It wasn’t like you had, you know, all of these, you know, kind of these consensus assessments of whether people ","P1-N4005A1":"were okay. Basically, a butcher found a rabbi. He supported, this was my great great grandfather’s contention, supported him and now the problem was after my grandfather had left in a huff, either, you know, not either or, but possibly due to some increment of personal scandal or tension and partly ","P1-N4005A2":"due to his doctrinal dogmatic dispute, he had to support himself. [00:20:07]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:26:55)
CLIENT: Sure, a detail.
THERAPIST: They came over later.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly, exactly.
THERAPIST: In support of her father, eventually, although there had been some—
CLIENT: She, oh wasn’t actually, no, she was sort of tangentially brought into this case because the reporter claimed that because she refused to denounce the synagogue president who was providing her father’s salary, she was, you know, contradicting her youngest sister.
THERAPIST: Okay. Anyway.
CLIENT: I’d heard nothing about this. My mother knew nothing about this. You know, the details of the begats are completely unobtainable, both, you know, certainly the details of the begats to King David, but even from my great great grandfather to King David. I’ve asked my uncle, I doubt ","P1-N400781":"if he will respond. [00:28:06]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:34:59).
CLIENT: I hope so.
THERAPIST: Yeah, no they would.
CLIENT: All right. [00:35:09]
THERAPIST: I guess I’m just thinking about all the shame that must have come from it.
CLIENT: Unbelievable.
THERAPIST: Like humiliation, and—
CLIENT: But you know, it’s also like, I also feel Lola comes off, you know, some of his, just, you know, the defense attorney, being an asshole. [00:36:07]
THERAPIST: I think kind of very larger than life.
CLIENT: Very, very, just this huge canvas, and so I’m thinking about writing it, and then I’m thinking God, I can’t, you know, so again, work, love, all of these things are in my head in a very vivid and, you know, melodramatic. It’s a melodrama, you know, but it’s very, ","P1-N4009E1":"it’s (inaudible at 00:37:55). [00:37:57]
THERAPIST: When did you see all of it?
CLIENT: Most of it, yesterday. I stayed up until four.
THERAPIST: Did you just get it all online?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, certainly the court transcripts are online. All of the, you know, like my great great grandfather’s book online. So I mean, you could actually go back and, you know, read the printed version of his manuscripts. And I’m very good at this. I’m like genuinely talented ","P1-N400A61":"at this kind of research, so I don’t know, maybe whatever, it’s just there for the asking, but it didn’t take me very long to (inaudible at 00:39:05) it out. [00:39:10]
THERAPIST: I have some thoughts, but they all seem too small.
CLIENT: Small is beautiful, I think, at this point. I mean, I’d like, from my point of view, small is actually good because this is obviously far too large.
THERAPIST: I mean, I’m thinking about wondering about your father and shame. [00:41:14]
CLIENT: He caused another scandal. Not so public, maybe, but I guess that’s what he really is.
THERAPIST: And something like separateness and having to pull himself away. I don’t know. And maybe, I mean, one thing that seems to (inaudible at 00:42:33) in my mind is like it probably could have been an issue, but you could also call it sort of a feeling of danger of being saddled on a part ","P1-N400B41":"of something that I guess is evident in your father’s life, both in terms of family stuff and also work and sort of the larger culture. He seemed to [00:43:05]
CLIENT: Well that was one of my theories, was that there was something, you know, some related phenomenon between his instability, you know, even going down to the level of not staying in the house for, you know, more than a year when I was small, and this wanderlust, or discomfort with—And I, ","P1-N400B61":"you know, granted, I expressed it through my own eyes, you know, in terms of my own experience of going one, very, you know, radically different environment, to another, but I wasn’t in control of the moves, so ultimately, you know, this instability is, was my father’s responsibility, particularly ","P1-N400B62":"because as we discussed, my mother just kind of abdicated any agency in deciding these questions. [00:44:06]
THERAPIST: It’s kind of horrifying that she would disclose that kind of stuff.
CLIENT: Oh God, I can’t imagine. I can’t imagine. We must be coming toward the end.
THERAPIST: Yeah, exactly.
CLIENT: You can look it up.
THERAPIST: It’s quite a story.
CLIENT: All right. I’ll see you soon.
THERAPIST: Yeah, bye.