TITLE: Client "A", Session February 04, 2014: Client discusses how his wife is surprised by how well he's adapting to being a father and husband. Client discusses his thoughts on if this is a backlash against his father's parenting style.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses how his wife is surprised by how well he's adapting to being a father and husband. Client discusses his thoughts on if this is a backlash against his father's parenting style.
THERAPIST: So, all right, I’m just going to get some water. Do you want some?
CLIENT: No, I’m good thank you. I was thinking about something over the weekend. I’m not sure what reminded me of it. I started writing for real. [00:00:57]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess in that way it’s kind of unconscious way of not letting yourself feel a part of something.
CLIENT: That’s occurred to me. But I don’t quite get it.
THERAPIST: Like why you would do that?
CLIENT: I don’, it’s hard for me to access the (inaudible at 00:05:39). I think I told you this anecdote of walking through the library, (inaudible at 00:05:45) , after I had come back from Holland, and it’s just like this brief moment, I was walking up the stair, I have a very vivid ","P1-N4001E1":"recollection of this. [00:06:01]
THERAPIST: (Long pause) Do you think this is out of loyalty to your father in the sense that in your mind, in a way, you want to really be part of things with him, it means not being part of things like the work environment? [00:11:12]
CLIENT: That doesn’t ring a bell. I don’t feel conscious loyalty to my father at this point. Maybe there’s some evolutionary phenomenon, maybe there’s a vestigial character to it, also originally. [00:12:00]
THERAPIST: I guess part of family mythology that you just—
CLIENT: Of course it made sense. [00:17:02]
THERAPIST: And if I, to follow Jennie’s (sp) point, there’s the sort of usual kind of [00:19:12]
CLIENT: What are you chewing on?
THERAPIST: I was just thinking about the first thing you said again in light of what you just said, something about you losing your thread or [00:23:01]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And but parts like don’t really talk to each other.
CLIENT: They certainly don’t strategize together. I think they do talk to each other, but not in very collegial terms. They just kind of, I’m just kind of whipsawed between the two of them. And they both have a logic. You know, they both have good arguments. Maybe not the right arguments ","P1-N400501":"at any given time, but—
THERAPIST: Well I think the arguments of the part that’s like, “I’m done, and I’m having nothing to do with it” are I think [00:25:17]
CLIENT: Maybe, maybe. And it may be you know, there has to be some, it’s like you know, in any given situation, there are two, you know, kind of polarities. [00:26:00]
THERAPIST: I feel directly that that part of you doesn’t just think, you know, “I don’t want to form a relationship.” It also thinks, “I can’t trust this person,” and you know, often, like they’ve already wronged you, which in some cases they have. You ","P1-N4005E1":"know, get very angry and wary about that.
CLIENT: And why is this regressive, per se? I feel like I need to defend it a little bit because it’s not totally clear to me that it is, you know.
THERAPIST: Okay, well yeah, let’s hash it out. I mean, I think it’s because though there may be some, there often is, some truth, you tend to kind of run with it too far and to assume it’s completely unworkable in a way that is generally, in the short term, proved otherwise. [00:29:22]
CLIENT: I’m trying to relate this to the question of memory.
THERAPIST: Well [00:32:07]
CLIENT: And kind of acclimatization. This, so you added this tension between these two sort of states of being, sort of habitual states of being. One of them is, one of them rejects self-protectively, and the other of them, what?
THERAPIST: Like gets really worried and tries to make things work, yeah. [00:32:59]
CLIENT: Tries to make things work.
THERAPIST: And gets sort of anxious.
CLIENT: Gets concerned about, yeah, right.
THERAPIST: Sometimes desperate.
CLIENT: Right, right. [00:33:09]
THERAPIST: Way.
CLIENT: Okay. So—
THERAPIST: And the forgetting happens from the first one.
CLIENT: Forgetting happens from the first one, it’s a rejection.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it’s part of the rejection that happens.
CLIENT: So your read on why I sometimes don’t remember the contents of our previous conversation is that I’m feeling a lack of progress and betrayed by the inadequacies of the process and so just to say, “The hell with it.”
THERAPIST: I think there is this part of you that’s, you know, sort of, that does that, yeah. I clearly, there’s a lot of you that doesn’t, because you keep coming in and talking, you know, but you do, yeah, I think so. [00:34:04]
CLIENT: Okay. I mean, you know, whether it’s right or not, I’m not totally sure, but it’s certainly internally consistent.
THERAPIST: Well that’s an interesting way to put it. I mean, you see why I mean—
CLIENT: Yes. I don’t know. That makes sense. That’s a plausible explanation, because I do have an excellent memory.
THERAPIST: Yeah, even the memory that you were just referring to from however long ago it was, in the library. You said it was very vivid and clear. [00:35:00]
CLIENT: I have an excellent memory. Even for childhood events, but also for adult ones, so you know, I mean the fact that my sleep is disrupted when I’m stressed out, and all these things do interfere with the functioning of it, but in general, kind of my native organic capacity to remember things ","P1-N400921":"is quite good, so these large holes in it are something that need to be explained somehow.
THERAPIST: You may be, a little. My inclination would be, and what comes to mind, although I imagine that might annoy you.
CLIENT: No, I’ll be all right, don’t worry about that. Are you wary of annoying me?
THERAPIST: I’m wary of annoying you if it’s like, I don’t mind annoying you, exactly. It’s more like I don’t want to, I don’t want to do something that’s provocative and I don’t want to do something that like, you know, gets into a thing that doesn’t ","P1-N4009A1":"feel productive, you know, like that. Your annoyance, I don’t know if that’s important. [00:37:03]
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess I don’t feel like I’m a person who’s easily annoyed, but I guess these are sensitive questions.
THERAPIST: Well, I think though, and I think that the way in which we’re doing this together, and you’re putting yourself in my hands, you know, sort of evokes some of these kinds of responses that we’re talking about, which, you know, many situations do not, I think. (Long pause) [00:38:00]
CLIENT: It’s a funny thing, you know, to express anger by forgetting things, or to express rejection by forgetting things. It’s a little like holding your breath. You know, if you do not meet my needs, then I will stop functioning. If you do not meet my needs, then I’ll do something ","P1-N400A01":"that, then I’ll harm myself. [00:39:02]
THERAPIST: Maybe it’s like, “Then I will just banish you from my mind.”
CLIENT: Okay, that’s a little different. Banish you from my mind. That’s not the way that it works, really. That’s not the way that it works out, I mean.
THERAPIST: Right. There’s a little kiddish quality to both. I guess that’s part of it, like holding the breath, (inaudible at 00:39:47).
CLIENT: All of this seems a little kiddish. I think one of the reasons is that it’s so mystifying, has been so difficult to, you know, for me to intervene in a pattern that I’ve seen very clearly for quite some time now is just that it’s so clearly, got tangled up in these developmental ","P1-N400AA1":"processes. [00:40:18]
THERAPIST: To me, it seems a little less kind of either or than that, that actually, I think with the work stuff, things have improved from that, probably have to resign from.
CLIENT: Oh, in the, when I came to see you.
THERAPIST: We haven’t really seen that degree of paralysis in a while. Some paralysis, absolutely. Some periods where it really mattered and you really couldn’t, absolutely, but not for a long time, and not categorically. [00:42:11]
CLIENT: Just not quite a tangent, but an interjection. The feeling that I had when I passed those two people in the stairwell at (inaudible at 00:42:50), was exactly the feeling that I had when you said working on it here. [00:43:02]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Anyway.
THERAPIST: That seems to me quite important.
CLIENT: Yeah. Clock, okay, that is our way.
THERAPIST: Yes. No, I’m not (inaudible at 00:43:51) stopping that if I didn’t have, if I had something I felt like useful or (inaudible at 00:43:56) to say about it, I would. I just am not sure what to say.
CLIENT: No, we can pick it up next week. All right, see you on Thursday. Yes, see you then.
THERAPIST: I’ll see you, Galen.