TITLE: Client "A", Session March 27, 2014: Client discusses frustration with their professional life, and their fantasy about some day no longer needing therapy.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses frustration with their professional life, and their fantasy about some day no longer needing therapy.
CLIENT: I was remembering something that just popped into my head as I was walking in the door. So when I was interviewing for jobs three years ago now; academic jobs, you know, it was a story. I mean I probably sent out ten resumes total of which maybe five were viable, in the sense that, you know, ","P1-N4000B1":"they weren’t done in the end, two minutes before I’d hit the deadline, and so on. [0:00:54]
THERAPIST: Yeah. [overlapping conversation at 0:03:15]
CLIENT: You know, and like somebody took me to the library and showed me Northwestern’s sword, which is kept in this vault in the library, and I’m like “What the f*** am I supposed to do?” But I smiled, and they snapped a picture and sent it to me by e-mail. I never – okay, ","P1-N400171":"well I’ll tell that (Aurora) (ph) after it’s over; after the rest of the story’s over.
THERAPIST: [Could it have something about the conflict] (ph)?
CLIENT: Well it was nothing, I mean, you know, it was like I was giving the version of my dissertation about let’s see, it would have been, yeah, just six months after I’d (inaudible at 0:10:10); just the summer after. (pause) (sigh) So yeah, so like on the one hand, thinking about this, ","P1-N4002D1":"we have – we’re sort of assembling little (inaudible at 0:10:31); you know, one was from the library; one was between us. And here’s the third thing yet; and this vignette -
THERAPIST: I have a question -
CLIENT: Yeah, sure.
THERAPIST: about the story, about the – I mean, I don’t sort of fully understand your reaction and feeling about what happened with the shoeshine guy, that -
CLIENT: Well -
THERAPIST: Yeah, go ahead.
CLIENT: I mean, I felt bad; I felt sad; I felt like I didn’t have what he needed. Moreover, I was responsible at some, you know, kind of microscopic level, for – I’m assuming that his occupation, it was an occupational hazard that he was engaged in. I’m guessing that the, you ","P1-N400391":"know, its regulation of shoeshine materials, and Switzerland is probably less stringent than in the U.S., if that, who knows? And you know, clearly, the fact that he was covered in ink, and dye and paint, was not (even) (ph) related to the fact that he was suffering these terrible skin eruptions. [0:11:44]
THERAPIST: Right, I followed that. But you said that it related to your feeling about the role of -
CLIENT: Well, just think about when you take this course, occupational course, this would be my ideological rationalization of my feeling, which was likely more complex, and maybe the ambivalence was more pronounced in my previous rendition of it. But you have responsibility to do something useful and ","P1-N4003D1":"productive with it. You know, it’s not, basically the lesson of the story for me is that you are privileged in a way that relatively few people are. I turned out, and it wasn’t privileged. (chuckle) [0:12:38]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Whatever. I mean at this point, it’s not sweet 16; you know, it doesn’t matter. But yeah. I guess though, this story for me, in the context of our ongoing conversation here, give a little bit more specificity to the ambivalence. There’s a lot of texture there, that’s ","P1-N400451":"a bit abstract, in the telling of the other two moments; the two vignettes.
THERAPIST: I follow it.
CLIENT: You know, is it just a rationalization? I think one of the things that I wondered, or doubted or have doubted, with some evidence at my disposal, I have to kind of – is whether this is really just a way of justifying to myself, the deep deep discomfort, or unfitness, or you know, maladaptation ","P1-N4004B1":"that I feel when confronting, imagining, conceiving, executing the process of being in an office; being in a job; being in a regular environment.
THERAPIST: I want to talk about those moments.
CLIENT: Sure. [0:16:00]
THERAPIST: I think, (pause) I think in a way, they’re both moments of self-(ordinate) (ph) and betrayal again. But they -
CLIENT: You mean both the shoeshine, and the college and the interview?
THERAPIST: Yeah, right, sorry. I meant the shoeshine and the college, where, you know, (pause) probably why they’re pretty evident, right? (coughing) You felt or had a sense that this guy had these hopes that you could help him, and then you couldn’t, and that sort of related to your commitment, ","P1-N400571":"and sense of commitment that like, okay, yeah I’ve got to do something with this opportunity to (inaudible at 0:16:57) this people. And not, as you say, just sort of like live high on the hog and do my own thing until I get done.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean it’s opportunity. And I think similarly, when you’re at college, that you know, “What the f***, you were too good?” It’s like, “What the hell is that?” I mean I know in your sort of world of like academic hiring and promotion, that’s ","P1-N4005D1":"probably not the most unusual thing to ever happen at all. But still, like from another point of view, the total set-up, presumably, the idea is to go and do as good a job as you can, and be impressive as possible. (chuckle)
CLIENT: One would think. [0:18:06]
THERAPIST: (chuckle) When they’re nagging you for that, and then be dicks about it, that’s seems, you know, you don’t think of a (trailer) (ph) really quite on like a set-up or really unfair. So anyway, I’m just struck at the way that that is, and clearly, is in your mind in ","P1-N400611":"thinking about how patient – go ahead, you had thought of another moment.
CLIENT: Yeah, and another kind of thought, (matching) (ph) yours. Another moment – every night and every morning, I take Grayson around the apartment. And I pick him up, you know, preferably at 6:30 or 7, but more like 5:30-6. And, you know, sometimes it’s dark and sometimes it’s light. ","P1-N400631":"So if it’s dark, I turn on all the lights and I go through the apartment. I start on the street, and we say good morning to the things; good morning to all the things.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:20:43).
CLIENT: Yeah exactly. And just like not feeling like doing it, and having this familiar feeling of the (key) (ph) intervening in a routine. It’s like, “Oh, f***, I’m just too tired to do this.” Again, shocking, right? But it was like the routine was exhausting.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know, it’s not picking (threads), what is he now, 18 lb. organism out of the crib, and walking from one end of our apartment to the other.
THERAPIST: Once you’re up -
CLIENT: Once you’re up, it’s not like that would be much more taxing than whatever.
THERAPIST: But somehow, [overlapping conversation at 0:21:29]
CLIENT: But somehow, it was like – yeah. Yeah, and I guess at the moment – at the time, I made a connection to this sense of comfort or discomfort, actually in the event, with institution – institutional relationships that seems intriguing to me, that I wondered about.
THERAPIST: (chuckle)
CLIENT: It’s doubtless not of complete insignificance that two months later or so, I had a crisis, and I went home prematurely in the middle of my fellowship; back to San Diego. So I don’t know; I don’t know what to make of any of that. But that seems like a betrayal so to speak, that ","P1-N400851":"was probably equal, at least of equal significance in all of the junk that we’re talking about; the betrayal of my vocation, and my subsequent betrayal of my vocation.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: My vocation betraying me and me betraying my vocation. (pause) (sigh) [0:25:03]
THERAPIST: And we think of the shoeshine guy too, whose vocation (inaudible at 0:26:47) was killing him. (pause)
CLIENT: So my job application; (laughter)
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: Jennie and I had a fight; or rather, Jennie picked a fight on Tuesday. I said – she said, “Oh my parents and the house is a mess.” And I knew that it would take like an hour and a half to clean up. But, you know, and I responded and that was the text that came in. Whether or ","P1-N400911":"not you remembered, there was a text that came in when I was here, and I had to shut off my phone; that was Jennie, like this long, long text, and I could tell that she was getting stressed out.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause)
CLIENT: (sigh)
THERAPIST: Well, (pause) (inaudible at 0:34:19), from the (inaudible at 0:34:28) you came in with and what you’re saying now. (pause) Another (pause) this might not be all there, but part of the way there – but another way I can think about the stories that told before, because the [time ","P1-N400A91":"we had been talking about them] (ph), is that like there’s impedance in a way.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Like that’s why you felt that, because you know, even though rationally, you know that like of course you can’t have that, I mean on that level. But on some level, like you’re totally bad for this guy, and here he was like -
CLIENT: Well, (from) (ph) the response, I mean I’d just gotten a shoeshine.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (chuckle)
CLIENT: You know. That was certainly one of the things I felt was that. Great.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and then with the interview too, right?
CLIENT: Nothing I could do. I mean maybe I could have been [overlapping conversation at 0:36:30] Well, and God knows what [overlapping conversation at 0:36:34]. You know, I did my best and maybe I didn’t play it right, and maybe I should have answered in French, my terrible American accent, (chuckle) ","P1-N400B91":"you know, whatever. Actually, maybe there was a better way to play the game, but it wasn’t like I just blew it. I didn’t blow off the talk; I gave him very good talk; I was engaged with people, and you know. So yeah. [0:37:05]
THERAPIST: Well I’m not sure yet.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But the third thing is, in a way, it’s also what you’re describing doing to me; making me impotent; like if we talk about stuff, and you know, figure out the appropriate narratives and so forth, that actually gets in the way; it impedes you. So if I am helping you, somehow that’s ","P1-N400C11":"getting in the way, and you need leave. [0:38:08]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: In order to be able to [that’s too] (ph) what you need to do.
CLIENT: So I did something that I regret there, and that I had completely, I mean you know, like all’s fair in here, and you’re big enough to take it. But just in a kind of interactive sense, you know, that was a hard thing to say to you.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And it completely did not occur to me, you know, that side of it completely did not occur to me. In other words, the impact of what I said on the other person in our relationship, did not occur to me at that moment. But yes, I guess that is an implication, that the very thing that you do, it’s ","P1-N400CB1":"like a recapitulation of the shoeshine guy; the very thing that you’re doing, if that formulation fantasy, as I think I called it, (chuckle) is correct, is actually, I mean impeding me. Although, I feel the need to protect (chuckle) you somehow. [0:39:40]
THERAPIST: That’s very interesting.
CLIENT: I mean, yeah. What I was saying was, that we had reached a point –was that we had reached a point where having explored all of these things in order to proceed to do the thing that we’re talking about, I have to leave, which is not the same thing as saying that intrinsically, by ","P1-N400CF1":"its very nature, our interaction’s impeding me.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But I do, yeah, I do feel a little bit and I do feel a little bit of, like my immediate reaction when said that, was remorse. I’m not sure about the metaphor still, but my immediate reaction was remorse; it was like, well, I didn’t really mean that way; I didn’t mean it as ","P1-N400D51":"anything about you. I was just thinking of myself.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So what is about that that feels a sense important to you? [0:41:28]
THERAPIST: (pause) I’m really, I’m not sure like, something about the sort of (pause) I don’t know, protectiveness or remorse. (pause) Maybe it’s like the concern about hurting you or making me feel the way you so often and so unfortunately have felt. I don’t mean by that, ","P1-N400DB1":"that I think you’re trying to just selfishly be remorseful, I mean to say that like, that’s a feeling you know all too well, and are imagining I think in me in feeling – [0:42:55]
CLIENT: Well I told you, you know, you’re the third therapist, the me therapist. I think one of the aspects of our rapport is that I identify with you, and so maybe it’s just the flip side of the same thing, right? Maybe this is a way for me to feel protective of myself. I don’t know, ","P1-N400DD1":"I kind of associate –
THERAPIST: I guess. (pause)
CLIENT: A compassion for myself.
THERAPIST: (pause) I think like part of what’s difficult about this, is if my – oh shoot, we have to stop. (inaudible at 0:43:49) If we’re on to something in this hunch, you know, then we’re talking about a pretty split off, kind of like, I think probably like envy and aggression, ","P1-N400E31":"in a sense that it’s been clear today, and often recently, that you’re happy to come in and talk, where there’s this nice rapport between us. [0:44:28]
CLIENT: Have a good weekend.
THERAPIST: Thanks. You too.
CLIENT: I’ll see you soon.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (background noise)