TITLE: Client "Ad", Session December 17, 2013: Client discusses a personality test he took online and whether or not he believes that people just fall into these haphazard categories.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses a personality test he took online and whether or not he believes that people just fall into these haphazard categories.
CLIENT: Last night I thought I had set my alarm but my phone doesn’t make a peep if it’s on mute and I also thought that I didn’t have it on mute but I think it was. [Pause] So I took this personality test, the kind of thing that was floating around on Facebook. It wasn’t very ","P1-N4000B1":"extensive. There were four sets of questions and each set is an either\/or with 10 categories of things or 10 sentences that you either identify with one or the other. And then it ends up giving you some kind of more of descriptive explanation rather than Briggs Meyers. It reminded me of something really ","P1-N4000B2":"similar. I think it was clearly the first series of questions kind of divided introverts from extroverts and then subsequently [00:03:32]
THERAPIST: Is it related to the NEO or the five big personality traits?
CLIENT: It didn’t seem to be but what are those ones? The INFJ kind of stuff?
THERAPIST: No, that’s not Briggs. Yes, this is extrovert, neuroticism, extrovert [inaudible at 00:03:56], emotional stability, extroversion, openness, consciousness and maybe agreeableness I think. [00:04:06]
CLIENT: It was different than that, too. I mean at least -
THERAPIST: They had the sort of standard model of personality.
CLIENT: Oh okay. It ended up so I, I took it once kind of just like quickly and I was reading. So it ends up and it gives you these descriptions. And it says, so the first description the first time I took it was called Dreamy Idealist. [Laughs]. I said, what? So I’m reading it. It’s a ","P1-N400191":"little bit too kind of and I think that it reflected the fact that I wasn’t, I didn’t go through each series of questions saying okay true, false, true, false. I think I was looking at it and trying to find the gist and going for it. And so I went back and took it again, just the same ","P1-N400192":"thing, to get back because it’s only four questions. I did it more like actually saying which of these would I identify and then tallying up the questions and then making a choice based on how many of these I can answer true or false. And it ended up that I was, it called me Analytical Thinker. ","P1-N400193":"Closer, I think okay. It seems not that the first was completely wrong but they just didn’t quite like there were some parts of it that I was just I don’t know if that’s right. [00:06:10]
THERAPIST: As compared to Georgia or ?
CLIENT: Yes as compared to Georgia, who doesn’t think about it at all and doesn’t do any internal exploration. Yes. And it’s just and I thought well I know Kyle (ph) typically doesn’t weigh in on things but maybe he would be persuaded to say yes or whatever.
THERAPIST: Whatever I would say?
CLIENT: Whatever.
THERAPIST: Is that your personality?
CLIENT: Well if my hunches seem to be, seem to reflect observations that you would also make. Or if there’s a better avenue approach so that we can both kind of talk about something I could try to rephrase it so it’s not a direct question. But in any case it’s been [00:13:51]
THERAPIST: Let me just make sure I’m clear what the question is. It’s do I think your assessment of yourself in relation to Georgia and somewhat in relation to the personality test that you took, do I agree with your assessments, disagree, have elaborations, things like that? [00:14:18]
CLIENT: Yes, like do you see me fitting a specific type quite well? Maybe a type of exam that I could take that I’m not aware of I don’t know because I am aware of -
THERAPIST: Myers Briggs?
CLIENT: Yes, Myers Briggs, I teach I think, I don’t even know because it was only like a, I think there were only 20 questions; that was really short. So I’m not sure that that’s accurate. I guess I was coming from a place of I’d really like to know if I do fit into a certain ","P1-N400351":"type of way of thinking about personalities in the world and kind of therefore and I totally understand, at least I see how this impulse is coming from the same place that doesn’t want hierarchal stretches in my life but at the same time tries to find new ones to structure my life. [00:15:55]
THERAPIST: Well [pause], yes there’s something in your wanting to know from me what I think about you in this regard that I think is important. I guess I think it’s partly a way of trying to ward off a kind of anxiousness about not knowing yourself and maybe me not knowing you in certain ","P1-N4003B1":"ways, I mean in a number of ways either. We should actually stop. [00:20:20]
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I’ll see you on Thursday?
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: Thanks.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: See you then. [00:20:37]