TITLE: Client "A", Session April 24, 2014: Client discusses passive aggression and conflict in their relationship.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses passive aggression and conflict in their relationship.
CLIENT: So it was interesting (inaudible at 00:00:18) missed Thursday, but I was reflecting on Tuesday for quite some time afterwards and was struck by the fact that is very rare, I think, for me to talk about (inaudible at 00:00:35) (laughs) it’s much or it has at least in the last while (inaudible ","P1-N4000B1":"00:00:42) talk about what I don’t. She’s (ph) probably significant. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah, which seems very closely connected to your enjoying having a positive space. You had things to say, you were feeling good, you were enjoying thinking about it, you didn’t doubt your motives for (inaudible at 00:09:59).
CLIENT: Cigar? It’s just a cigar.
THERAPIST: Sure. (Pause)
CLIENT: (Laughs) I was wondering if you have to dust in here. If the red…
THERAPIST: I don’t, but I’m not in…
CLIENT: The vent does bring too much…
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:11:30)
CLIENT: Oh, it doesn’t. So there’s no need to dust. I mean, I think—this random thought that came into my head and then I was thinking, maybe this is more interesting, “This space has felt more harmonious to me lately. Interestingly.”
THERAPIST: The physical space?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I don’t think there’s been a major remodel, (laughs) but (inaudible 00:12:08), speaking of positive space.
THERAPIST: Sure. How so?
CLIENT: I couldn’t tell you. [I don’t know if we’ve had anything strange] (ph) about this sometime. I mean, it’s a weird thing. You’re in this building, you come to this building, leave this building, and you’re in this building for over 10 hours a day or whatever ","P1-N400351":"you do. A stretch, but...
THERAPIST: Right. She was a consultant.
CLIENT: Right. She apparently took over the thing that I abandoned. As I expected that she would and kind of suspected that she was angling for. I think, in retrospect, probably not in any inappropriate way; she saw it and she thought it would be good and [it worked out though] (ph). Anyway, she wrote ","P1-N400451":"and asked to talk for an hour about some bull s*** that I was very uninterested in. I didn’t respond [at first] (ph) and she sent another message saying, “I’d really like to talk to you, blah blah.” I just wrote back and I said something very brief like, “You know, it’s ","P1-N400452":"really hard to find time for this right now. You should talk to so and so and such and such.” [00:18:18]
THERAPIST: Right. Sort of like, “Get out of my face.”
CLIENT: Well, I didn’t respond to Ginger. And Marcus solicited a direct response so I—Rebecca, I’m sure, understood what no response meant, so I think that was fine. Angelie (sp?) just wanted a more personal interaction, so I gave her a brief one. [00:19:20]
THERAPIST: Right. (inaudible at 00:21:38) three or steps further and it’s like you want to get a restraining order.
CLIENT: Yeah. Whatever. [I don’t need a restraining order] (ph) because everyone knows what it means. Yeah. Right. One imagines. It’s just a break. I’m not leaving anything behind. For a long time I had this weird practice of leaving lots of stuff in lots of different places, like ","P1-N400531":"really far from (ph) places. Like my friend’s apartment in Switzerland. After I left in 2001, my step-sister—the house that my step-father bought in the south of Spain, like in their cobb, I left all these papers apparently, after I left Geneva. So I would leave, and yet I would leave stuff. ","P1-N400532":"When I left Providence to go off to Holland, I had all this s*** in storage that I was paying an arm and a leg for. [00:22:46]
THERAPIST: Well, you (ph) don’t have too much you have to say about it. What occurs to me is that, two things I suppose, that that seems related to the not leaving anything behind and sort of sense of decisively leaving. [00:25:35]
CLIENT: Yeah. That’s what I said.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Themes –I haven’t got to the point yet.
CLIENT: Okay. Okay. (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Themes related to perhaps this phase (ph). This phase [at home] (ph), being more comfortable and seeming more harmonious, as though that stuff were not hanging around here either.
CLIENT: Yeah. Some psychic phenomenon that’s…
THERAPIST: And also similar maybe to—I was thinking about the professor who introduced you to Jennie and who also suggested this job. I don’t know what the circumstances were. My fantasy was that he did something that really turned out to very good, of course, for you. So it’s not ","P1-N400631":"about him. It’s not about something he needed. It was not about someway (ph) he was going to use you or whatever. [00:26:49]
CLIENT: Yeah. And actually, it’s interesting because he made the suggestion when Jennie was out of the room and we were having a conversation about how I was doing and he’s very intuitive and very sensitive intuitive person. In our previous interactions, I had had the sense or fear, a paranoid ","P1-N400651":"fantasy, that he wanted me to support Jennie so that she could do her work, and that his agenda, when he would come over previously, was really oriented toward kind of proletarianizing (sp?) me or something. Making it so that I would be of service to this beloved person he kindly introduced me to. [00:27:44]
THERAPIST: So Anne in the History of Science knows this guy and is also a house master where you would potentially…
CLIENT: I don’t think they have openings for RAs at her house, but she would make a recommendation. So as a continuation of my predilection for avoiding anonymous employment applications. At any rate, just the sense of still having a network after having said goodbye to this other woman, I think ","P1-N4006D1":"felt like a relief—a network that wasn’t going to be exploitative, that demonstrated its kind of benevolence and care about my interest and well-being in this very nice conversation. [00:29:48]
THERAPIST: I imagine that in parallel to what feeling harmonious about our interaction as well, that—
CLIENT: Yeah. It’s interesting. I guess that’s true. I guess presumably that’s also true. Interestingly, this other gig would come with a house. I mean, we would move into one of the houses. Whatever. It’s likely not something that would happen [for fall] (ph). (Sighs) [00:30:30]
THERAPIST: Very clear that you didn’t want to feel used anymore.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. I was going to give them an hour to tell them about my strategy for collecting bottle (inaudible at 00:32:28). Yeah. Sure. Certainly didn’t feel obligated. I guess part of this decisive feeling is that I don’t want to pursue something that would require me to rely on them ","P1-N400771":"for anything really. And that’s less…
THERAPIST: Maybe you also are more confident than you’ve been in a very long time, maybe ever, that you don’t have to be, to make things work.
CLIENT: Maybe. At any rate, I just want to be done. Yeah. I don’t know. I think it would probably be good to—you know, I haven’t done anything prejudicial to hurt good relations or anything, but (sighs)…
THERAPIST: That’s how it seems to me. You [seem more common] (ph) that it’s possible.
CLIENT: Maybe. I’m getting there. Maybe I’m not quite there yet, but I’m beginning to envision reality in which—I would very much like to understand how I got there and why, in fact, I have had that sense. [00:33:48]
THERAPIST: Like that you believed that was probably that…
CLIENT: I just needed something.
THERAPIST: The only way somebody was going to make a place for you is if they were also using you in a sort of way that felt really bad (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah, or whatever. Just being a little more generic about it. Just that there was some relationship that felt as if I wasn’t getting what I needed to out of it and they were. So I guess that’s another (ph) way of putting (inaudible at 00:34:23). Anyway…
THERAPIST: Yeah, and there was some (ph) promises (inaudible at 00:34:29).
CLIENT: Yeah. We must be coming to the end of our 35 minutes. So, yeah. I’ll think about that over the weekend. I think the decisiveness, the feeling of decisiveness is one that I’m (inaudible at 00:34:53) (laughs). So on the one hand, it’s pleasurable and on the other hand, strange. ","P1-N4008B1":"And a little uncanny, I guess.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I guess (inaudible at 00:35:12) to me is partly confidence and confidence on my, in a way that’s like I don’t need to do that to myself anymore. Like, I don’t need to put myself in that situation (inaudible at 00:35:23) you in that way. Maybe that’s why I had ","P1-N4008D1":"the thought about the restraining order.
CLIENT: I mean, I think about the restraining order is that you’re asking the state to do what you’re unable to do for yourself.
THERAPIST: That is true. What I had in my (inaudible at 00:35:39) was, and God know where it might come from, I thought it might be me not you, is yeah, your (inaudible at 00:35:53) somebody else to sort of set a limit to keep you out of a relationship with (inaudible at 00:36:01) abusive and absolutely ","P1-N400911":"(ph) bad to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, I’ll think about that anyway.
THERAPIST: All right. (inaudible at 00:36:12) Tuesday. See you soon.
CLIENT: Okay. See you then.