TITLE: Client "A", Session November 15, 2013: Client discusses a recent visit of his girlfriend's mother to help them with the baby. Client is stressed over taking care of his new baby and a recent plumbing mishap at his apartment.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses a recent visit of his girlfriend's mother to help them with the baby. Client is stressed over taking care of his new baby and a recent plumbing mishap at his apartment.
CLIENT: The main thing that’s on my mind is whether I can recall them to do these questions (inaudible). So we have an apartment in a very old house and the landlord is this Greek guy from a village near Sparta where they make olive oil and he came in the late ‘60s I think. He’d been ","P1-N4000B1":"an officer in the army and you know, most immigrants who came just worked and had shit wages for many years. But what Nick did that is unique in my knowledge and would certainly be impossible today was while making $7 an hour as a house painter he bought a house in Westchester Port – a triple ","P1-N4000B2":"decker, that is, our triple decker, and I think they’re still pretty close to the margin in terms of their capacity to absorb unexpected expenses. Maybe that’s a bargaining position on his part – I don’t know. But they still live in the building. At any rate it’s a very ","P1-N4000B3":"old house and he keeps it up entirely himself and hasn’t changed the pipes since he bought it, I’m sure – meaning that all the pipes are the original pipes and all the pipes have all this shag on the inside which catches anything that goes through them, so clogs are not infrequent. ","P1-N4000B4":"So any time there’s a clog, instead of calling the plumber or whatever, Nick, this 75-year old comes up sometimes with his wife and an acetylene torch to deal with it. So yesterday my mother-in-law came in on an emergency basis because [Jennie] (ph) and I were just totally exhausted. She was staying ","P1-N4000B5":"in one of the spare bedrooms. And should say that we absolutely adore this apartment despite all its idiosyncrasies, in part because not only do we have our own bedroom, we also each have an office.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it’s way below market and its location is wonderful. We’re really, we’re really, really happy there. So I’m telling you this partly because I’m in a stream of consciousness mood and partly because it’s relevant to this.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So Jennie’s mother-in-law came down from Yale on the train to help us out. We’re having a naming ceremony for Grayson on Sunday and so my mother and sister and family, all of the family are coming down for this thing. So she’s going to come down on Saturday. So among the various ","P1-N400131":"services she’s providing is washing our dishes which is nice because among other things the pipes are too bad in this apartment to get a dishwasher so I’ll wash them manually. She starts washing the dishes and nothing goes down the drain. I’m like – ‘oh fuck.’ I said, ","P1-N400132":"‘okay, I’m going out to Rite-Aid, I’m going to get some Drain-O.’ And we’ve done this a million times before because I hate calling the landlord. He’s 75 freaking years old and, hale and hearty and all – it’s a clog. So I went to the drugstore and I got ","P1-N400133":"some Drain-O and I put it in the drain and I’m feeling kind of lousy because I spend so much time and energy getting this place perfect – ready for my son – you know the drains. So I put in the Drain-O after breakfast and you sit there and let it work for 30 minutes, come back and ","P1-N400134":"uniquely in my experience it has not gone down. In other words, the clog is so intense that the Drain-O has bubbled up into our (unclear) sink.
THERAPIST: Ooh.
CLIENT: Yeah. So like, it’s like this like scum of foam of Drain-O. I could see what Drain-O does when it’s working. It just came right back at me. I’m like ‘fuck.’ Now what do I do? And I even want this concentrated Drain-O to remain in the sink so the first effort to ","P1-N400171":"flush it which was fruitless – just put hot water into the sink – which would at the very least it would – nothing. It didn’t go anywhere. I was like, ‘fuck, I can’t leave this thing. My son’s over there, we’re over here.’ There are fumes, etc. So ","P1-N400172":"I went under the sink and there’s a – because it’s so old it has copper pipes, but there’s like a little petcock an inch in diameter that you remove to snake it. So I put a bucket-ish basin underneath it and this would have been enough for what was in the sink but I wasn’t ","P1-N400173":"reckoning on the fact that there was water all the way up to the clog and Drain-O. So it all came rushing down and overflowing into the bottom of the sink, this toxic mixture of water and Drain-O. It overflowed the basin. [00:06:29]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So he starts working on it and he can’t make any progress. He gets this gigantic, full-sized plumber’s snake from downstairs. He gets this little snake with the – you know, that fits into the drill, you know, and he tries to drill it out and nothing is happening. After two ","P1-N4001D1":"hours of that he says, ‘my wife and I have our physical examinations,’ and I said, ‘Nick, get to your goddamn exam and come back later.’ He comes back with his wife – so these two 75-year old people in our kitchen trying to get rid of the goddamn clog and he gets his acetylene ","P1-N4001D2":"torch and he undoes the weld on the copper pipes and he looks in the junction and he clears it out and he says, ‘oh, I think it’s down in the main drain.’ And I’m like, ‘Nick, it’s not down in the main drain. Don’t be ridiculous. If it was in the main drain ","P1-N4001D3":"you wouldn’t have any drainage here.’ It just wasn’t making any sense at all. (Laughs) So there’s these two crazy people in my kitchen and I’m like, ‘call the plumber.’ And he says – he goes into this long story about how he came to his country and was ","P1-N4001D4":"making $7 an hour. Anyway.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: That it had nothing to do with it. There’s something in this cluster of behaviors that has been so disruptive for me that fuck all to do with – I mean, I presume that its predisposition but anyway, I am very detail oriented. I turn out to be very meticulous. I turn out to be evidently ","P1-N400291":"capable of just in there and not only being OCD or whatever, but actually being directed in that level of focus and concentration and detail orientation. And all that’s required is that I feel an investment and that was a very nice thought, I guess, as I was trying to get off to bed. That was ","P1-N400292":"a very nice thing. So that was a very long story.
THERAPIST: Well I think it is, I mean –
THERAPIST: I had the image as you were talking, for example, of your room two or three years ago when you couldn’t clean it up, as being like a blockage. And your reacting internally in ways sometimes more exactly with your time not unlike you reacted to the blockage – like, fuck, you know ","P1-N4002F1":"and frustrated and that’s not the moment you’re meticulous. You’re pissed off and overwhelmed like – and then you know, like my next thought is there has been, have been blockages in more attempts to make a more secure, stable environment for yourself and those cause you to react ","P1-N4002F2":"in a way that kind of expectedly makes it hard to think, be careful, maybe for the constructive ways you could be – there’s a block and you’re pissed and helpless and it blows everything up. ‘I’m not sure why.’
THERAPIST: (Laughs).
CLIENT: I’m not sure why I feel the need to defend my behavior in the face of this blockage which was – I did do the right thing. I snaked it out exactly in the right way. I had all the right tools there at my disposal. There was an unexpected whatever that brought the blockage in the rush ","P1-N400331":"of water into the kitchen floor and unexpected like I confronted them and I had these rules and presence of mind to be confront them and to be –
THERAPIST: That’s true,
CLIENT: perfectly honest had the landlord not come upstairs it probably would have been solved in approximately two and a half fewer hours with fewer orthopedic problems down the road for him and his wife than otherwise. I don’t know why I support this need to specify that but –
THERAPIST: Good point and I think you’re totally right.
CLIENT: So following your metaphor the question would be, again, why those other blockages produced such a radically different response from me and I guess I come back to me this sense of me not being able to own the things that I was supposedly responsible for. Now I don’t think that’s ","P1-N4003B1":"a great way of being because at some level we, none of own the things we’re responsible for. Very few of us unless you happen to be unusually independently wealthy or unusually whatever, fortunate. But I think there’s something there. [00:20:11]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think, my impression is that it sort of goes some ways towards answering your first question in that it was a bit like you reacted to the penetration of entropic force into this space but you also, I think, were sure and confident enough that it was manageable in this instance that ","P1-N4003F1":"it didn’t blow you up in the way in other circumstances it has. You know, like –
CLIENT: This I could manage.
THERAPIST: Yeah, like I think you had some – maybe part of what’s so instructive about this example, or helpful, is you had some of the kind of angry or explosive reaction but also it was a manageable enough situation and I think you are confident enough in the few months of setting the ","P1-N400431":"space up and knowing this is going to be fixed one way or another and knowing you have help there that matters in Jennie and her mother, that you stayed with it and acted, as you say, quite constructively. I think, by contrast to other times where you don’t know if it’s fixable or if it’s ","P1-N400432":"ever going to get better and you feel very much alone with the problem, and overwhelmed.
CLIENT: Yeah, that room was a trip. That room was very psycho-dramatic. Still is in some sense.
THERAPIST: Talk about penetration of entropic forces into –
CLIENT: I think that’s a mixed metaphor but I can’t remember the physics. (Laughs)
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: But yeah, penetration of entropy at the very least.
THERAPIST: It is mixed but it is probably instructive like –
THERAPIST: I mean like entropy is sort of –
CLIENT: Anti-force like it’s organized but –
THERAPIST: Like disorder and disorganization as a way that things get out adding energy just kind of fall into a mess or chaos.
CLIENT: My father’s favorite – one of my father’s favorite quotes was, Nietzsche writing in Zarathustra saying, more or less, ‘one must have chaos to give birth to a dancing star.’ He loved that. He would quote that all the time.
CLIENT: I don’t think I feel as hopeful about chaos I think in my life.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So like now, Jennie’s mom is staying in my study. And it’s not, I haven’t reached the point where I’m anal, like everything doesn’t have to be in place, and there are (unclear) and photographs that as in any office really, or most offices that I’m aware of ","P1-N400611":"where you have patience or what have you, it’s whatever, it’s used, but it’s not dirty. It’s not like there’s food lying around. There’s not like piles of mail that have been unopened for seven months. There’s a paper shredder. It’s a real office. It’s ","P1-N400612":"a real functional office where you can fold out the bed and it’s a bedroom. There are books on the walls and I actually read them sometimes. What am I trying to say? Something’s shifted.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And the fact that it didn’t shift for so long means something about the blockage or something about how I was responding to the blockage which I think is the pertinent point.
THERAPIST: I’m not quite sure how this fits but it seems actually like the thing that shifted the blockage was seeing Isaac.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes.
THERAPIST: Something about –
CLIENT: Yes. Yes – very important.
THERAPIST: And being able to redo it for him.
CLIENT: Yeah, becoming a father. And I mean I guess the way I have been thinking about this is that this put an end to my relationship, my former relationship with my father. Not like, all relationship for all time but it’s like somehow for what, almost 18 years after he died I was unable to shift ","P1-N400711":"the terms. It was not until I did it myself that I could do that. And it’s been dramatic, I mean like dramatic, dramatic and part of the drama is the fact that I have a sense again, rightly or wrongly, I’m not sure how strongly I want to interpret some of this stuff – but I have the ","P1-N400712":"sense that everything that I’ve been doing up to now professionally has in some way been just tangled or implicated in this relationship in the vein of doing what my father wanted and not mine – something I didn’t have ownership of and because of that sense of coercion, all of this ","P1-N400713":"non-detail orientation, this lack of focus, this sense of distress, to be more psychologically attuned, obtain. And I think in my more, I don’t know, x-moments – I’m not sure what to fill that place holder with, I think to myself, ‘I cannot go back to that.’ I cannot do ","P1-N400714":"what I was doing before. The only way to preserve this sense of clarity and detail orientation is to kind of, I don’t know, this sense of contentment and well-being, is to do something completely different. That seems potentially fucked up to me and there are practicalities involved.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But that’s kind of the way I’m feeling right now. That, at the very least, is my train of thought. Almost exactly.
THERAPIST: That you can keep it if you keep away from that.
CLIENT: Yeah. And keeping away from that means doing something completely and utterly different that’s mine and it’s not implicated in his desire to resuscitate his academic career or his desire to be the Messiah or his desire to – once it was clear that that wasn’t going to ","P1-N400791":"happen, to have his son fill that role for him. I told you the story of how, probably, a day before he died he sent my sister out to look at the fruit trees and report back to him – like there’s a scene in the Bible when Moses dies where he did something similar. And then he looked at me ","P1-N400792":"and very sententiously, he could barely talk at that point, he said, you will become a great social (unclear).
THERAPIST: Oh, he did?
CLIENT: Yeah. He did (laughing). That’s remarkable that I didn’t tell you that. I told everybody the story but I didn’t tell it to you.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: And God knows, in other circumstances, I suppose it’s possible, but you can imagine it makes a lot of this stuff pretty fraught.
CLIENT: It’s funny what comes to mind.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: So what came to mind as you were chewing on that was that the interaction with Nick which has developed – Nick is the landlord.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: We’ve become very, we’ve acquired a nice rapport since Jennie became pregnant and I was thinking A – that he’s very close in age to my father would be, B – we have a completely non-fatherly, I mean he’s a little paternal in the way that older people often ","P1-N4008D1":"are with younger people, but I don’t confuse it for my father and I’m so prone to confusing people with my father even people who are completely inappropriate that it’s truly interesting to me that we’ve developed this very nice relationship where we loans me his drill and he ","P1-N4008D2":"says, ‘this is the way you drill out a bolt that’s broken,’ and etc., etc., and he says, ‘if you leave the screen door open,’ and this was his parting validation, you know like half serious, ‘if you leave the screen door open and the wind comes along and blows it ","P1-N4008D3":"off the hinges, I’m charging you $10,000.’
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: He’s such a funny guy. But it’s like it’s so strange after so many years of confusing people with my father –
THERAPIST: I find it striking that you mention the second, final – what did you call it? Final validation or something?
CLIENT: Yeah. Right. Yeah.
THERAPIST: You’re saying yeah, because if you were confusing him with your father it’s so striking thing that you don’t mean him.
THERAPIST: I don’t know, there are always a lot of metaphors like when you’re talking about your father – you’re probably right the one you mentioned today about the intrusion of chaos. It’s often metaphors that have to do with intrusiveness and chaos, like the star, like ","P1-N4009D1":"the pitchfork up the ass -
CLIENT: Spear. Quotes.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That makes more sense in a way. You know, the really sort of intrusive dying pronouncement. I even think the bit about the contrast was correct – like he actually helped you to make the space for the baby.
CLIENT: I don’t know, he’s pretty intrusive. I like him a lot. He’s a pain in the ass. He’s like the house is really his domain. He’s been able to keep it together with chewing gum and baling wire for 40 years now. He is up on our balcony half the time.
THERAPIST: I guess I have this sense that he helps.
CLIENT: He’s intrusive. He helps –
THERAPIST: I see. He is intrusive. Yeah.
CLIENT: We’re paying so much less than market for a three bedroom apartment in the most convenient location in all the Providence metropolitan area, you know, above a really nice older couple one of whom is a very conscientious landlord and just kind of pulls up his sleeves on half an hour before ","P1-N400AB1":"he has to be – like, and you know it’s like whatever. He’s human and this is a human relationship and it’s not perfect and it is marked by intrusiveness on his part, so I’m not sure how well that works. But he is helpful and he is definitely conscientious. He’s a ","P1-N400AB2":"real mensch as my grandmother would say. He’s really, he’s got good character and he cares about people who have good character and it’s just a good relationship – good landlord\/tenant relationship that has some affection. So I don’t know about the intrusiveness but that’s ","P1-N400AB3":"kind of my take on how we interact.
CLIENT: I mean he’s part of the ceremony, this naming ceremony – he has to be. We’ll still put a chair out for him.
THERAPIST: It seems to me it sounds like probably what you’re trying to convey now is you’re protective of your relationship with him and missing him.
CLIENT: In that bag – I won’t belabor the point since we’re at an end today, I have the bong that I sent him after he began chemotherapy that he never used because he such a – so interested in marijuana, that I’m sending to a friend who has just been diagnosed with Stage ","P1-N400B91":"IV ovarian cancer. She’s a poet and so she – and she says she has 30 more books left in her so she’s getting the most aggressive possible therapy. So she knew my father very well. So there’s something – I don’t know. Another time.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Talk to you on Monday.
CLIENT: Monday.
THERAPIST: Congratulations on the naming ceremony.
CLIENT: Oh thank you. Thank you very much. Bye-bye.