TITLE: Client "A", Session February 22, 2013: Client just found out that he is going to be a father. He talks about the the types of communication breakdowns and interactions he and his girlfriend have. He recognizes the immature qualities in his behaviors, especially when he gets overly angry or irritated.
DESCRIPTION: Client just found out that he is going to be a father. He talks about the the types of communication breakdowns and interactions he and his girlfriend have. He recognizes the immature qualities in his behaviors, especially when he gets overly angry or irritated.
CLIENT: Oh well, okay. Two recordings, alright.
THERAPIST: Oh no, that's just the clock.
CLIENT: Oh, I didn't —
THERAPIST: The other one started ticking again.
CLIENT: I see. It must be a tickless clock somewhere.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Gotcha.
THERAPIST: It's a long story.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. (pause) So, it's interesting. I found our discussion on Wednesday very useful.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: (pause) I went to New York and did what I needed to do and things went well.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I had a couple of good meetings, got some good feedback. I mean, in the end I basically just sat down in the cafeteria [down below the bank building] and wrote it. (pause) I think the way that I'm understanding part of what was going on at least was that I didn't know I was sick and I felt bad. ","P1-N400291":"I just felt disrupted and kind of, I don't know. Disregulated. Is that a word? (pause)
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (pause) One thing I did not — I mean, I'm sort of accreting random thoughts, I guess. I noticed that during the week when I was sick, my urine was very concentrated, which makes sense. You know, there were things that had to be excreted [as a virus goes].
THERAPIST: I wonder if there's something about the way these stories put you back in contact with your body that's simple. (long pause)
CLIENT: So I got some news yesterday. Jennie (ph) is either a month or two months pregnant.
THERAPIST: Oh my God. That's some news. Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Congratulations.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Congratulations.
CLIENT: I was interviewing this guy and it was late when she called, and we had a nice [sweet] conversation on the phone. (pause)
THERAPIST: (laughter) (pause) You're on it.
CLIENT: I think so. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Was there a particular reason that you had genetic testing?
CLIENT: She had genetic testing to find out, I guess, you know, whether there was a risk to the — because she'd had it before. I guess this is something they have you routinely do when you're in your late 30s.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So she wanted to tell me what they'd found, reasonably, but it was right after I'd arrived.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So this often leads to a fight. I was, you know, I was listening to her, but it was all so — just arriving and collecting myself and throwing off this annoyance and coming home. As she was talking, I was moving around the kitchen and she said "I got blah" and I said "oh, they found blah ","P1-N400791":"blah blah" and she said "no, they didn't find blah blah blah."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I'll respond in a way that Jennie (ph) doesn't like, and she'll just like completely blow up the conversation. This is classic, right? So her tendency is just to abort — I guess that's not the right metaphor. (chuckles) But her tendency is just to end it in frustration, and my tendency ","P1-N400811":"is to go ahead with it, despite being distracted and frustrated. So, you know, we had that interaction and both of us felt really shitty about that because what we really wanted to do was just sort of mutually, you know, say hello and enjoy this moment of our life together, et cetera.
THERAPIST: You've been able to be very productive lately. You know, talking about putting that together, kind of getting through this and getting the piece written and I think [it all connects].
CLIENT: (laughter) I see. Yes, good point. (laughter)
THERAPIST: I imagine in here it may be the intensity of the demand to figure things out and the sort of sense of danger about the repercussions if you don't. The anxiety that goes with that is part of what makes it hard to think and put things together. (pause)
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe. I don't know. I think it just takes time. It's been hard to [put things] together in exactly that way. You know, I'm good at telling stories. I'm good at coming up with possible stories.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I just told a lot of stories about this process that took it away from what, at the end of the day, is actually pretty simple.
THERAPIST: Yeah, maybe it's more accurate to say that it makes it harder to be in touch.
CLIENT: Maybe. (pause) I mean, you know, I imagine that this kind of a schematic is something that had been clear to you at some level for a while. This seems like a pretty basic way of thinking about kind of, you know, things I've been struggling with.
THERAPIST: Well, there are a few different things going on. There's something that gets sort of a bit persecutory about the pressure that you feel.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that sort of gets you into a more abstracted mode where it's hard to, you know, be in touch with other feelings such as "but shit, I'm sick." And that's okay. (long pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, the persecutory mode is — (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Is what?
CLIENT: It's a reality. I do often find myself falling into that kind of story. (pause) I think it's less about persecution than exile or, you know, just a feeling of fragility in these relationships. The persecution is more of an expectation than anything else. Anything could be a pretext or a rationale ","P1-N400C31":"(inaudible at 00:35:53). (pause) It's the default assumption. (long pause)
THERAPIST: Right, so this time you went over —
CLIENT: So this time I went over off the bat. He said "No, they didn't take it off the flight early. It should come out on the conveyor belt." I said "Which conveyor belt?" He pointed over to the conveyor belt and I waited there for 10 minutes, just stewing. I wanted to get home. I wanted to talk to ","P1-N400D31":"Jennie (ph). And it turned out they had let them out on a different conveyor belt and there they were, sitting there for that whole 10 minutes during which time the line at the taxi stand had grown to the point where I had to wait another 10 minutes to get a taxi.
THERAPIST: And I also think further, like a combination of what's going on.
CLIENT: Okay, well, that too.
THERAPIST: We should stop.
CLIENT: Ah. Okay.
THERAPIST: Congratulations again.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Are we good next week?
CLIENT: Yes. Oh no, we're not good next week, unfortunately. It's the same deal, I'm gone through Thursday. Tuesday through Thursday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So a week from today would be the next meeting.
THERAPIST: Alright.
CLIENT: Are you here?
THERAPIST: Yes, I'm here. I don't think I have anything on Monday.
CLIENT: Okay, okay. Well, if something comes up, then let me know about it.
THERAPIST: I will.
CLIENT: Otherwise Friday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: See you then. Have a good weekend.
THERAPIST: You too.
CLIENT: Bye.