TITLE: Client "A", Session February 15, 2013: Client tries to pinpoint what it is that causes him to disassociate and 'blank out' in certain circumstances.
DESCRIPTION: Client tries to pinpoint what it is that causes him to disassociate and 'blank out' in certain circumstances.
CLIENT: So, (pause) I can't remember what it was that kind of stuck in my (pause) head from Wednesday. (pause) I was trying to call it back and it was little foggy but here I am (inaudible). But (pause) we interviewed a candidate for one of the project positions yesterday.
THERAPIST: This is you and Phil?
CLIENT: Yeah. And (pause) I've mentioned in the past I think that I often have difficulty introducing myself or at least have quite a bit of anxiety about introducing myself. I can't remember whether...it hasn't come up in a while. At any rate, especially when professionally I've felt sort of an acute ","P1-N400111":"sense of dislocation for obvious reasons, that was very (pause)..., it was a process that caused me quite a bit of stress. And one of the ways in which that manifested was that I would be really hard pressed to introduce myself in a way that was kind of coherent. [00:02:10]
THERAPIST: Right, to access yourself.
CLIENT: Not really being able to see (pause) this historical...
THERAPIST: And in a way you are clearly there.
CLIENT: Yeah and it's somehow when (pause)...I guess this was the kind of train of thought was that when I'm there when I'm talking to somebody on the phone, when I'm physically present with them then suddenly it all comes rushing back and I'm like, "Oh yeah, I remember. I remember my connection ","P1-N4001F1":"to this person. I remember the person that I am when..." Phil sort of completed my introduction of myself and suddenly I remembered, "Yeah, I really am that person! Yeah, I really..." And were I to have remember that person from the beginning I would never have had this anxiety because of course I am ","P1-N4001F2":"that person. Why should I be afraid of (pause) dislocation? The person that I remember myself to have been simply wouldn't be jettisoned in the way that I have been appearing. [00:07:16]
THERAPIST: Right, right. (pause) Yeah, one sort of (inaudible) that occurred to me is whether this fits with (pause) it being difficult and hard to remember things here, especially when you first come in.
CLIENT: (pause) I've forgotten that I've asked you this question a couple of times I'm sure and I don't remember your answer but is this unusual, these kinds of deficits? Isn't it kind of...it would seem kind of a structural phenomenon if you're not sort of seeing a psychotherapist every day to forget things.
THERAPIST: Yes and no. I mean, sure some degree of forgetting, just as in any part of life, is kind of expectable after a few days. And then there is though, an added thing with therapy where it's generally often and a bit harder to remember and where the last time doesn't matter, even when you see ","P1-N400291":"somebody every day. They can come in the next day and it can...and then (pause) it's erotic because we had a few conversations a while ago where you were very clear I don't know if you remember that you were convinced that this is not a normal kind of forgetting when you came in and you're like, ","P1-N400292":""It's not just that I kind of don't remember what happened. It's sort of like it never happened or it's completely gone." There was a degree of disconnection that you felt, which seemed (pause) somewhat more profound than what people often experience where you might not remember or you might realize ","P1-N400293":"it's hazy and maybe this kind of charge (ph) but there's a sense of at least having been there when it happened. You know what I mean? [00:10:43]
CLIENT: Yeah, that happens sometimes.
THERAPIST: Yeah but you were saying I think, when we talked about this before that it was almost like it never happened or you weren't there until it came back. You weren't saying that to kind of encourage me to remind you so much as to make it very clear that this was a very profound experience ","P1-N4002D1":"that you were having.
CLIENT: Yeah, right, I remember this. (pause) So to me it seems pretty profound. Not having access to this kind of thing seems pretty profound. (pause) It seems like a good thought. So anyway, I'm not sure where it goes.
THERAPIST: Yeah I'm not sure yet either.
CLIENT: Yeah I'm remembering a little more of our conversation we were talking about the heater. (pause) It's not clear to me how much of this thing about forgetting is actual forgetting and how much of it is fear of forgetting stuff. I think if I was very sort of anxious, feeling really kind of as ","P1-N400351":"if I was not functioning very well, the degree of not remembering our conversation on Wednesday might have been very upsetting and prevented further recollection whereas in this case I was pretty relaxed about it and in five minutes (inaudible) kind of reconstruct at least enough of our conversation ","P1-N400352":"if we really put our heads to it, probably call it all back. [00:13:46]
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: I can remember long, long poems but not...Many kids memorize their children's books, that kind of thing. (pause) I still remember them.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Well, I've had that model for a while. I guess I always thought of it less as a single episode that sort of happens in collective childcare, especially when some of the caregivers are 18, kind of don't have a clue.
THERAPIST: What would happen? [00:18:47]
CLIENT: Leave me under...like one time my mom came back and the person who was taking care of me had me under the truck that he was fixing. I think my mother...
THERAPIST: By yourself or he was there with you?
CLIENT: He was there, yeah. He was there but he was just going on (inaudible) collective (ph). It wasn't somebody that (inaudible). So that has (pause) always...not always but for a while...
THERAPIST: Do you remember that stuff being scary?
CLIENT: I know...I have a distinct recollection there's a (pause) story, even it's kind of a family story, of the first time my parents went away for a weekend without me and I got really, really upset and I wouldn't talk to them for a while, suggesting that it was an issue for me.
THERAPIST: How old were you roughly? [00:19:55]
CLIENT: Three. (pause) Three and a half, something like that. (pause) You know, so short of an actual trauma, which I've never heard ever happened, this is as close as I come. I think that we have a lot of biases about how people ought to be, how early childhood caregiving ought to happen. And not necessarily ","P1-N400551":"incontrovertible but (pause) one could come up with a paper arguing that it was not a good idea to farm childcare out to 15 people on the basis of this experience I would think. [00:20:57]
THERAPIST: So what was the structure of it?
CLIENT: There were, you know, (pause) let's see...by the time I was born, they'd been going for two and a half years. I think there were probably (pause) 10 to 15 households, something like that. I could be wrong about that but that's my sense. But at least, in my understanding, all tasks, including ","P1-N400591":"(pause)...each household had an enterprise that they were responsible for. They also had sort of collective responsibilities that they had and I was one of them. So my mother would go and work in the restaurant or whatever and while she was there, assuming that she was doing something that she couldn't ","P1-N400592":"watch me during, my understand at least is that somebody else would take me. Maybe it was more on an occasional basis. But what I I'd have to get more information about this believe (ph) it at least happened regularly that somebody else would, as part of their regular childcare responsibilities, ","P1-N400593":"is [I being] (ph) the only child for quite a long time. [00:22:33]
THERAPIST: Oh, there were other kids.
CLIENT: A couple years later the twins were born. They were a couple years younger than I was, a year or two.
THERAPIST: So you'd get farmed out to somebody who had childcare plus whatever else.
CLIENT: Yeah but it wasn't like it was somebody who was good at childcare who took this responsibility on. It was like everybody had...
THERAPIST: Right because none of these people have kids.
CLIENT: Everybody [has this other family] (ph). These kids were kids. Like the episodes that I heard the most about...my mother was really stressed out about this. She really did not like this arrangement, yet she didn't intervene until I had an ear infection and somebody refused to give or well, didn't ","P1-N400651":"refuse, but gave me something other than my antibiotics. [00:23:32]
THERAPIST: Like they literally had a...
CLIENT: Yeah, the thought was that I was kind of like the collective underwear, or angry incarnation of the complaints that I had about this arrangement. [00:24:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) Yeah it does not seem like a very good way to do child care. (inaudible) there are people who are designated. The parents drop their kids off when their little because they're kids. (inaudible)
CLIENT: I mean...so this has been a part of my own kind of hypothetical model for this, I don't know, abandonment fear for a while, that right (inaudible). That's a good connection. In the absence of any specific trauma that I can recognize that (pause)... that's been a thought that's been in my mind ","P1-N4007B1":"for a while. The memory thing though is interesting because it's not quite...
THERAPIST: Here's how I would think about it fitting together. I'm not sure where [to be thinking] (ph) (inaudible) but the way that it seems to me like it could fit is that in the present your experience is that what you're saying today is that when the other person goes away they kind of take you with them.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. [00:27:48]
THERAPIST: And as a little kid that's part of the importance, I would think, of having consistent figures like caretakers is that they remember what happened yesterday and they help to keep you sort of in touch with routine, with how things work, with what happened yesterday, with sort of what you're ","P1-N400811":"preferences and inclinations are, what you like to do, what you don't like to do, the way of life things. They remember you like to eat your sandwich without the crust, you know, it's like...and with this kind of rotating group of (pause) probably not all that attentive and experienced caretakers...
CLIENT: Affectionate but not attentive.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you must have gotten this very different (pause) sort of...you know how the kid builds up a stable sense of who they are in part because the parent is consistent and provides that for the kid. And... [00:29:13]
CLIENT: Something's attracted to (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Yeah, and I guess...
CLIENT: It's like they were spawns in similar ways to similar things. There are routines built into the relationship that allow you to develop internal routines and ways in thinking about yourself.
THERAPIST: Yeah and partly because they have [their origins] (ph) and partly because they got to know you. In other words it's partly like, "Well, we eat lunch at 11:30 and before we eat lunch we do this and afterwards we take a nap." And some of it is because they, "Oh yeah, you know, I sort of picked ","P1-N4008D1":"up on the fact that you like the sandwich without the crust and you actually like chocolate milk and when you get angry you act this way." [00:29:56]
CLIENT: Yeah, our cat has a lot of rituals. So we'll walk into the door and often he'll be sleeping and sometimes he'll (pause)...well frequently he'll be there to greet us, especially when we've been gone for a while. We'll get to the third floor of the staircase and he's there and he'll lie down on ","P1-N4008F1":"his stomach like a lot of cats do and he'll want you to scratch his pelvis or whatever, the small of his back and when you do that his back slowly raises.
THERAPIST: Typical cat things.
CLIENT: Yeah, typical cat things, and he'll want each of us to do it, so he'll want Jennie (ph) to do it. She does it her way and she'll want me to do it and I do it my way and you know, it's like a regular thing. And the interesting thing is he'll want each of us to do it in our own way. And that's ","P1-N400931":"really important to the cat and some people and cat, whatever. But even for an animal with a much smaller brain, presumably with a less complicated kind of consciousness, that continuity is really important. I guess I can imagine that not being able to count on that continuity would be rough.
THERAPIST: In the way that you want it.
CLIENT: In the way that I want it but it has a very tight deadline. (pause) And so we kind of agreed that I would do it and communicated with the people who are going to be doing the production and it's a book. Katie (ph) will be contributing too and I was asked to write the piece, write the draft at ","P1-N400A11":"least. And I mean, it's some little...it's good because I can write a thousand word piece of reasonable quality pretty quickly and yet I really want to get it done soon so I can polish it a lot because it needs to be good partly because I think this is a test you know? It's a bit of a test so (pause) ","P1-N400A12":"I've been pretty sick the last few days but yesterday I started feeling a bit better and my fever came down and (pause) I've just sort of been in a position to work a bit better but I came home yesterday and sat down at about 5:00 and was just kind of ready to work and I really need to start. And this ","P1-N400A13":"kind of time wasting exercise reasserted itself. It's just like anything but. There's an aspect of that phenomenon that is related to this, like I can't call the project to mind. It's really the analog instead of the person, what have you. And I think in the light of our current train of thought, in ","P1-N400A14":"some sense it's also about not being able to call myself in my [glass theater] (ph), my interaction material to mind. [00:36:28]
THERAPIST: A.M.?
CLIENT: A.M.
THERAPIST: Whoa!
CLIENT: All I wanted to do was work and I don't remember at least there's this dissociative phenomenon and so what exactly I was feeling is not always totally accessible but I don't remember feeling I panicked about it. I felt concerned I really need to get my thoughts out on this. There's not infinite ","P1-N400AD1":"time. They wanted it by the end of the weekend, the draft, and there's not much time to...it needs to be a good draft. In other words it needs to be a draft that really sets it on its feet otherwise we're not going to be able to deliver it to these guys. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well and often when you talk about these sorts of things it's sort of precipitated by (pause)...
CLIENT: Being dissatisfied with something.
THERAPIST: Yeah or like feeling a bit abandoned in one way or another and it does seem like that in this.
CLIENT: Well and I guess there's this possibly complex and difficult political thing where they handed off to this other...they've handed off some idea of specified authority to this other unit who is...who have not been keeping me totally in the loop. They've been sort of drafting with Alec and sometimes ","P1-N400BB1":"definitively not keeping in contact with me. I mean they're not being (pause) mean but you know.
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) Well the thing that you described sort of standing out about this project is that there's a bit of pressure on and it's a good opportunity. [00:40:39]
CLIENT: Yeah, that's the way I feel really. And I feel like people are definitely giving me more than a fair shot and not many people get an opportunity of this kind. It's really pretty cool. I feel good about it. I feel confident to do it. It's like at some level it does feel a little qualitatively ","P1-N400BF1":"different in that way.
THERAPIST: Something was definitely going on.
CLIENT: I wasn't really in touch with it to the extent that...I could say, "Wow, this is a little odd. What's going on here?" And yet it was more like, "God, this is a little odd!"
THERAPIST: We're going to have to stop. We'll talk more on Wednesday.
CLIENT: I have to go to New York I'll be back for Friday but not for Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Okay, when do you go?
CLIENT: Tuesday morning.
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause) I had a cancellation maybe on Monday. Do you want it or are you going to be (inaudible)?
CLIENT: Day, like noon?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I don't remember exactly what time.
CLIENT: Yeah, let's do it! Is that cool?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's cool. Let me e-mail you the exact time within a few hours.
CLIENT: Okay, that sounds great.
THERAPIST: Okay. I hope you feel better.
CLIENT: Okay, thank you. I'm getting there. [00:42:38]