TITLE: Client "A", Session January 18, 2013: Client is positive about his career move, he feels validated.
DESCRIPTION: Client is positive about his career move, he feels validated.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. I was laughing as I got dressed this morning. There was no way I could do logistics without my monkey suit, but in light of our phone conversation it was a little bit fun. (Pause) So let me just talk practically about working and this week some it was real easy like one task I ","P1-N4000D1":"did really easily. The other I had some problems. I felt some resistance and I guess the resistance is kind of what I'm thinking about this morning. I'm trying to understand it a little better you know how it relates to... In theory I'm feeling like this is kind of an optimal psychic space. I feel good. ","P1-N4000D2":"I feel validated. It's new and I'm enjoying getting to know all these people; understand the system. I feel interested. I feel like they're treating me well. [00:01:18]
THERAPIST: Well from my least favorite subject to my favorite question.
CLIENT: What comes to mind? (Chuckles)
THERAPIST: What comes to mind?
CLIENT: Literally what's on my mind right now is I didn't eat breakfast and I'm hungry, and I feel like as we (inaudible at 00:02:35) that's there. I didn't... I took a shower. I shaved. Last night I laid out my clothes, etcetera, but I didn't make time to eat breakfast. [00:03:06]
THERAPIST: The phrase that's occurring to me is through a bunch of this there's signs of a struggle.
CLIENT: Maybe. Maybe. So let me tell the rest of it which might give you more fodder for your hypothesis. (Pause) So I went to sleep and apparently I was sleeping very deeply. And Jennie came in at one point to find me asleep on the futon and she knew that there was stuff that I needed to do. You know ","P1-N400291":"iron my pants, clean cat hair off of my red coat, and just stuff that had to be done before departure. [00:09:26]
THERAPIST: Sorry. When you say the prerequisite to feel otherwise about it...
CLIENT: Well the prerequisite for acting otherwise. I guess that's what I'm saying.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: The prerequisite for acting otherwise is to feel otherwise about it; to feel like this is something that I'm doing. And yet I don't. I don't see how it can be. I doesn't feel like a conscious decision. There's some kind of process by which I'm hiding myself off from it; that I don't really have ","P1-N400391":"a handle on. I don't know. I mean we've explored it before. This is not the first time this kind of thing has happened. [00:13:21]
THERAPIST: That we're talking about right?
CLIENT: I feel a little bit out of control I guess. That's the most straight forward way of putting it in all the senses that, that implies. And I'm struggling with that because on the one hand I ought to be in control. I feel like all other conditions are right for me to be in control. If I'm not in ","P1-N4003D1":"control in these circumstances, when will I be in control? And I guess that's the point at which I come to you saying so what's the program here? [00:14:01]
THERAPIST: (Pause) Well it sounds like your let's say the (inaudible at 00:14:42) part is feeling probably tired, probably somewhat ignored, you know maybe a bit overwhelmed. I guess I have the impression that at one level you're sort of geared up for the crowd, excited, also anxious, and really kind ","P1-N4003F1":"of committed to making the new job, or gig, or contract, or whatever you call it, work. [00:15:29]
CLIENT: It's good but another element just occurred to me relating to this trip.
THERAPIST: Yeah. What's that?
CLIENT: We're partnering with a department within the institution outside of the president's office and the knowledge and learning department. And frankly they seem kind of half-assed, yet I think the strategic decision made clearly to me given the fact that the product hasn't been great. That it was ","P1-N400471":"important to have somebody to have a group of people within the institution to be the brokers to other parts of the bank. In other words, just running this initiative directly from the president's office. I mean it wasn't what they wanted to do strategically in terms of internal stuff. [00:18:15]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:18:37) they would pay. So you mean...
CLIENT: The president's office would pay. It would come from their budget. I would come from their budget. My travel would come from their budget. And they would be able to orchestrate the composition of these things and I would be the point person for executing them. [00:19:02]
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: So...
THERAPIST: But then you'd be working within this department?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. I mean so what that means is, for example, they... Sorry. I lost my train of thought. They were talking to me about giving me some office space. We have had a long conversation last Friday a week ago about how to build the team, etcetera. But my expenses, and salary, and consulting ","P1-N400551":"fees come out of the president's office.
THERAPIST: Gotcha. (Pause) Well do you have further thoughts about the reaction itself, the feeling of being jerked around a bit or... Let me put it another way it's usually like that's the thing that can be a little hard to get a hold of. It's easier to get a hold of and talk about being pleased with ","P1-N4005F1":"how you handled it and sort of the kind of operating that way or whatever. But the part in the first place where you have that kind of (pause) reaction seems maybe a little harder to get a hold of or it seems that way to me but maybe not to you. I'm wondering about that and about the nature of the reaction ","P1-N4005F2":"that you had. I mean I guess it was frustration or something along those lines. [00:24:56]
CLIENT: Well I mean it's a pain in the ass on short notice to come down to New York I feel a little bit annoyed at their... I'm conscious of at least it is annoyance rather than hurt or maybe I'm sure there's all that stuff but I'm most in touch with annoyance about... You know it's like they don't ","P1-N400611":"have a budget. They aren't really super confident like they don't know what they want to do. They're asking me to come and do it for them. And if I do it well, as I'm capable of doing, then they're going to reap the benefits. But I guess I feel a little annoyed about it. It just seems... [00:25:47]
THERAPIST: Yeah it's starting to take on some of the hallmarks I think we talked about before but you're not real confident in how they're going to be using you in a way.
CLIENT: Well no that's actually fine. They're very nice. You know at the end of the day they're very nice and I'm not really dependent on them.
THERAPIST: Right. I guess what I had in mind, and maybe this still isn't the right thing, is it sounds like you're not entirely convinced that when they say you need to make a trip down there they really have sort of thought it through well and they're less crucial. [00:26:25]
CLIENT: Yeah. That is definitely true.
THERAPIST: They may be well meaning...
CLIENT: We could easily do this with a phone call. And there is something to kind of building a team and building collegiality. And one of the things in the back of my head is a conversation I had with Kevin not long ago where he said you really have to work with the team. You know when he says shit ","P1-N4006D1":"like that there's usually another conversation with somebody else that happens consequently. So I imagine that the word went out to (inaudible at 00:26:57) I fantasize I think is a better way of putting it. I have no idea exactly what happened. But I fantasize there was a very brief exchange with (inaudible ","P1-N4006D2":"at 00:27:06) where he said make sure that Galen's a team player or something along those lines. Make sure not only that he's doing work but that he's getting it on time. He's being team player. He's not being... [00:27:20]
THERAPIST: Well there's that. There's the fact of kind of feeling at some level a little bit jerked around by them. Again, I understand that their well intentions but you're having to deal with their half-assness. [00:28:14]
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I wrote saying delivering something that had been commissioned of me on Monday with a note for on Tuesday morning the note saying let me know when we can meet. Actually even before that on Monday I said, "Is there a time when we can meet?" So like what the fuck right. So there is ","P1-N400731":"definitely some annoyance there. There's probably some deep annoyance about this need to be a team player and sort of visibly demonstrate my team playerness by 24 hours notice flying down to New York.
THERAPIST: When what you just also said if you do a good job for them they're going to look good.
CLIENT: A lot better than they would look under usual circumstances.
THERAPIST: Right. And then there's this question of whether you're being a good enough team player. I mean it sounds like a lot of the old things. [00:29:09]
CLIENT: You know some of it I look at it and I say well you know there's something there that is worthy of assessment. And some of it I look at and say well you're just kind of being irritable and whatever. Maybe that evaluation is somewhat analogous if not homologous to the question of whether I'm ","P1-N4007B1":"worth consulting fees. I don't know. There's something that feels a little bit parallel there. Do I have standing to be genuinely annoyed or am I just being easily annoyed?
THERAPIST: Right. I think I'm following you.
CLIENT: You follow me.
THERAPIST: Are you just being irritable or are they kind of doing something which is definitely annoying. [00:30:04]
CLIENT: But I mean getting back to the practical question of being productive with some of the more creative tasks this is really an issue. It's like am I just being irritable or is there really something that this is a indicator of that I need to respond to before I'm able to deal with the production ","P1-N400831":"problem? Is the production problem the problem in itself or is it...
THERAPIST: It would seem to me that being irritated in this way, however much you or they are responsible for, probably relates to the production problem. I mean that's what we've seen time, and time, and time, and time again.
CLIENT: Earlier we had a slightly different understanding you know potential way of seeing this and this is the second one. I think this is the second way of understanding that. That the irritation is the primary causal. [00:31:05]
THERAPIST: I would imagine that the one you're talking about now sounds like it may be more central. But both probably put together...
CLIENT: How do you imagine those two?
THERAPIST: (Pause) You know like (pause) last night I think when Jennie trying to wake you up and let's say for a minute that we're talking about two sides that we're not actually talking about Jennie. We're talking about the side of you that's probably on her side and saying I've got to get up, and ","P1-N4008D1":"I've got to get my suit, and I've got to get ready, and I've got to think about those things that I haven't wrote the outline. And then on the other side you're like hey I'm tired. I'm putting in my time. I did this. I did that. I am going on this trip and I'm kind of annoyed about it. Fucking let me sleep. [00:32:21]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don't think that's maybe exactly the same but it may be... It's not hard for me to imagine that it's related to this feeling of I don't want to fucking go down to New York this weekend. (inaudible at 00:32:35). I don't want to get opinionated about not being a team player if I really spend ","P1-N400911":"a lot of my time making everybody else look better than I wind up looking. So you know it doesn't sound so far down the road from...
CLIENT: So let's just assume that. You know take that as a premise. Where does it go from there? I guess what I'm trying to understand is where it goes from there?
THERAPIST: So that's at 8:30. I can throw something quickly at what you said.
CLIENT: Well you tell me quickly and I'll chew on it, and we can reconvene. [00:33:13]
THERAPIST: I don't think... I imagine something that's therapeutically active is appreciating as we're doing the context for the reactions that you're having whether it's your to being woken up, or your annoyance, or irritation. And that when you sort of give it a little breathing room you're less likely ","P1-N400991":"to act on it in a way that you're unaware of such as by not doing the work.
CLIENT: Good.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: We'll see you next week.
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: And you'll prepare a bill or something because at minimum I think I owe will take some of the pressure off. [00:34:05]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: If you could also write up all of the details that I would need to interact with these people, then...
THERAPIST: Yeah. What I'll do is I'll send you what I have from the fall. Yeah, I'll send you what you need to bill them, just dates of service, diagnosis, and my tax ID.
CLIENT: So in their form there are two codes. One is the service code and one is the diagnosis code.
THERAPIST: Okay. Yeah, I do, do this for other people.
CLIENT: Okay. Okay. We'll work it out.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Have a good day.
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks. See you next week. [00:35:02]