TITLE: Client "A", Session December 12, 2012: Client has a hard time expressing himself in basic interpersonal communications when he is feeling stressed.
DESCRIPTION: Client has a hard time expressing himself in basic interpersonal communications when he is feeling stressed.
CLIENT: I've been debating whether to go [inaudible] style on this.
THERAPIST: Oh God. Yeah.
CLIENT: But I have one more system I will try first if that doesn't work.
THERAPIST: Okay. It's awful. It's awful. When... Yeah... I don't know. There's no apathetic way of debating the idiosyncrasies of our healthcare system but it's pretty bad. So let me know.
CLIENT: Yeah. So let's see. So we're working in New York I think I spoke to you it must have been Friday morning, and I had spoken to Jack just the evening before so I was sort of frustrated. But I revised my job description to include lying about renewal and the Chief of Staff just bought it. So it ","P1-N400131":"doesn't really commit them to anything in some sense, but we'll see how it goes. [00:01:44]
THERAPIST: (Laughter) Everybody wins.
CLIENT: Everybody wins. Right. (inaudible at 00:07:55). So I associate this...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:08:03) hearing something from the insurance company? [00:08:04]
CLIENT: Yeah. Right. Exactly. Maybe they are having a similar problem as I am. It's their philosophy of mind that's presenting them from sending the OP's. So Jennie made this association and I'm not sure. Maybe there's something there. I'm not sure. I'm just sort of passing this along. But at any rate ","P1-N400271":"its definitely true that under similar conditions when I feel stressed and what I felt stressed about at work kind of the level that rises to consciousness has been A, not having a place, B, not having people to interact with, C, having this uncertainty about my career, I guess, you could put it and ","P1-N400272":"specifically the kind of bureaucratic organizational aspects of this interaction that we see for... I think I have some letters to numbers. So D, (pause) pursuing and getting a lucrative gig at the bank while I'm drawing a salary from this struggling non-profit. E, I guess, having things that I committed ","P1-N400273":"to doing but that have been in the offer for me to do that I'm not going to do. I'm not going to do... There were projects that I talked about with various people, and I'm not going to do them for a variety of reasons. But one of them is that you know I'm not there full time anymore. But again the complexity ","P1-N400274":"is that through December I'm drawing .75 percent salary. [00:10:17]
THERAPIST: You have a project from...
CLIENT: No. From the contract that we... The job description from New York. It's such a relief. It's like it's something to think about. It's like something to work on that you can strategize about, etcetera. And I go there and I actually work. I'm like wow so this is life.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: So the stressor creates a kind of feedback loop because the more disconnected I am the rarer my appearances. The more kind of below my affect the less responsiveness people are and the more disconnected I feel. I don't know. I mean it's just... Now the rationalization comes back. It's just such ","P1-N400331":"a shitty situation. It's like I'm not quite sure how one might navigate it. [00:13:00]
THERAPIST: It's almost like these are two sides of the same coin the dynamic Jennie describes and that disconnection that you're describing where on one side the other person's kind of in your head a little bit and can you know...
CLIENT: Or vice versa. My head is in the other persons or it's projecting to the others.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I see what you're saying.
THERAPIST: Yeah. They sort of...
CLIENT: My perception is...
THERAPIST: Yeah. And on the other side they don't know you at all. They have no place for you. [00:15:08]
CLIENT: Right. Wait I lost object definition here. What's the other side?
THERAPIST: The sort of disconnected version. So in the sort of magically connected version...
CLIENT: Oh I see. So you're agreeing with Jennie? You see this relationship too? You see a kind of (inaudible at 00:15:30) there as well.
THERAPIST: I guess I'm trying to put together these two things.
CLIENT: You think that's possible?
THERAPIST: Yeah. I mean they both point to in a way the best word like kind of a magical relating to the other person. On one side in which they kind of know more than they realistically would about your mind, the context, what you're thinking, where you're coming from. So you kind of feel that, I think, ","P1-N400511":"quite strongly in a way that without really realizing it leads you to provide sort of a less detailed description that at another level you know they would need to really get where you're coming from. [00:16:31]
CLIENT: Why is the second magical?
THERAPIST: Well I guess you could say distorted.
CLIENT: What's the distortion?
THERAPIST: Well that they've forgotten about you altogether. That you're not in their mind at all. That they have no idea where you're coming from or where you are. You know like Phil says he's leaving and it's like a huge tremendous rift opens up as you feel it.
CLIENT: Yeah there's some of that. [00:18:04]
THERAPIST: One way I know that or what makes you think that is often It's happened most with Phil over the course of our meetings so it's easy for me to point to that as an example but there are others. You know often after you have a long conversation and you're feeling that way things are better ","P1-N4005F1":"when you realize that he's not a thousand miles away. He's off in some world or whatever, but he's not forgotten about me altogether. It's not as though there's nothing there or he has no interest in my well being. It comes as a bit of a relief and even a revelation that he's there more than it felt like.
CLIENT: So I guess what I'm struggling to not struggling. I see where this goes. I see the connection you're drawing, but I'm laboring a little bit to understand the connection between that kind of interaction with Phil with somebody that you're with a fair amount and the kind of alienated disconnected ","P1-N400611":"interactions with people that I don't know very well at all but see casually from time to time at work. [00:19:38]
THERAPIST: Well I would imagine that relates to kind of personifying institutional a little bit feeling like you had no place there and so you're kind of a refugee or alien. I mean to a degree... For one thing I imagine that don't see you as being... I mean there's kind of a...
CLIENT: I don't know at this point. I mean it's like I've been very noncommunicative and people have been noncommunicative back recently. I'm just not in there very much so maybe they wonder what's going on, etcetera, which is fine. They don't know what the details are. Presumably they're less mystifying. ","P1-N400651":"And when I am there I'm very stressed out. I feel very distressed. [00:20:32]
THERAPIST: The what? [00:21:18]
CLIENT: Well yeah. I mean you know here are two examples of what seems like in some sense, at least, be a kind unitary phenomenon. The job search, I think, is a kind of proactive formulation along the lines of sense of disconnection, and alienation, and unresponsiveness, what have you, that I've seen at work.
THERAPIST: So how do I make this better?
CLIENT: Well I mean I know you're party line is generally that you just talk about it and that's how it gets better and I can see the logic in that. Just more practically from the standpoint of our conversations there is this thing I've noticed this thing. I've noticed these two things and I noticed ","P1-N400711":"they're kind of related to each other. So what do we talk about now? I want to intervene. I feel like is really troublesome. This is something a dynamic that's coming up again, and again, and again, and I don't like it. It makes me feel lousy. In a material sense it makes things difficult for me, and ","P1-N400712":"for my household, and for the people that I know, so on and so forth, and I'd like it to not be the case anymore. [00:23:21]
THERAPIST: Well I have two thoughts (pause) that actually don't come together. The first is it seems like there is a way you feel... I guess my thinking is that it makes you feel kind of stuck. I'm not quite sure what the right (pause) metaphor is. Whether you feel like I said okay here's a hammer and ","P1-N400771":"a screwdriver, and you're kind of like okay where are the nails and screws? I don't really see where I'm supposed to go with this. [00:25:13]
CLIENT: Well so here's what I'm feeling at this particular moment. You said something about that being an interesting connection and you want to talk about it more.
THERAPIST: I thought it was interesting.
CLIENT: No, no, no. I think that was what I was hearing from you. And from my point of view like my interest in this conversation are purely instrumental. So I feel like at this moment I'm not saying this in a global sense I don't think it's true in a global sense but the energy that I'm feeling ","P1-N400811":"or whatever is that you're interested and wanting to explore something further and I'm like this is really painful. This is really difficult. These are two things that are totally kicking my ass at this moment. And sure I'm interested but I'm interested in some kind of intervention. I'm not really interested ","P1-N400812":"in understanding the dynamics better. [00:28:07]
THERAPIST: It sounds kind of like (pause) a bit clinical and scientific for me in a way. Like oh this is curious. I'm exaggerating it now. But you're struggling and suffering with this stuff and I'm saying well isn't that an interesting pattern or connection, or a sort of curious aspect of the thing ","P1-N400831":"you're struggling with in this sort of removed maybe intellectually engaged but not sensitively engaged in that.
CLIENT: I'm not sure. I think that level of critic probably exceeds what was on my mind. I guess what was on my mind was well this was a kind of an interesting connection that Jennie made. It sounds like it might be plausible. But I'm narrating here. Who gives a shit? Like that's not the most urgent ","P1-N400851":"thing that presents itself to me. What presents itself to me as urgent are these phenomenon. I'm not sure how interested I am at this particular juncture in figuring out whether it relates to my tendency to lose the thread or relationship between me and my model of the mind or the other. [00:29:38]
THERAPIST: Well (pause)... Well let me try a straight answer. To me what seems like not necessary but central about this point is that... I think the sort of two sides that I'm running into I think that captures those primitive aspects of how you relate to other people that causes you so much grief. ","P1-N400891":"I mean that's it. [00:31:47]
CLIENT: If you get it. If you get what?
THERAPIST: Let me sort of...
CLIENT: I'm not sure I set up today's discussion as a conditional.
THERAPIST: Let me sort of collaborate a little bit. Well let's think about what happened. So you're at home and you're telling Jennie a story about something at work or something that happened, and you're telling her 20 percent of what she probably needs to know.
CLIENT: It happens all the time. It's like who is that person?
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) Right. You're like you're going through warranties and telling her every fifth page or something like.
CLIENT: I'm not enjoying this.
THERAPIST: And she's like huh. But for you you're having the sort of experience of telling her what's going on. And I guess a feeling of... Well it's almost like you're sort of feeling very understood or feeling like she's really right there with you with what's happening so that you only have to tell ","P1-N4009F1":"her a little bit for her to get the whole story. Like she's kind of in your head or I guess as you said you're kind of in her head. [00:36:54]
CLIENT: It's not quite like that. It's not quite like that as I think about it. As you're describing this I'm comparing it with my recollection of what's going on. It is kind of like she disappears and that's what is upsetting to her. It's like what I have left is what's in my head and my attempt to ","P1-N400A11":"encompass, or come to terms with it, or understand this structure, this neural phenomenon, and it's almost like I forget that she's there. Not really. Not like in any real sense. [00:37:35]
THERAPIST: I think there is a model of her there and I've been there with you; not as often as she has but...
CLIENT: You can testify to this.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think I see the point of like there's some way in which you say hey I'm over here. I need all the words and the whole cast of characters where there is a sense of being forgotten about. [00:38:08]
CLIENT: I feel a demand. I feel a stress of presenting something to her. And in that state of heightened awareness or whatever all of the focus turns to something that is outside. I'm not being very articulate about this. I feel very stressed about my abilities to deliver this in part because such delivery ","P1-N400AB1":"is often difficult for me. And in that state it's like what her reasonable expectations for information might be are kind of lost.
THERAPIST: I mean what I picture... This doesn't do you justice but I think if I could (inaudible at 00:38:58) like a little kid comes in from the playground at four years old and launches into mom into some story about the kid that got in front of him in line for the slide or something and gives this ","P1-N400AD1":"sort of... It's easy to imagine the kid sort of pouring it out, but in a way that's sort of true to how he feels and gives some bits and pieces of what actually happened that the mother may be able to piece together. But it's not something that's kind of oriented to what the mother would or wouldn't ","P1-N400AD2":"know about it. [00:39:40]
CLIENT: Great.
THERAPIST: I mean like I'm upset and so and so's such a jerk. I was on the slide and then he was... You kind of know there's a... You know what I mean?
CLIENT: I know why you're bringing that up. I also, as I said a moment ago, see this as probably a developmental phenomenon rather than Asperger's or something.
THERAPIST: Oh yeah. I don't think that.
CLIENT: No, no, no. I mean so... Where I don't agree is that I think what's happening is an excess of self-consciousness rather than unselfconsciousness. I mean what is notable among other things about these kinds of episodes in young children is that they're completely unselfconscious. They're just ","P1-N400B71":"not... There's like an aspect of this relational process that they're not yet expert in. [00:40:35]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So they can't do that model. Instead what's happening...
THERAPIST: They're egocentric. It's not that they're bad.
CLIENT: No. No I mean it is egocentric, but at least the experience of this phenomenon that I have internally maybe they have a similar kind of experience. I don't know or remember. But my experience is that I'm just intensely aware of this other person in a way that interferes with my ability. In other ","P1-N400BF1":"words, the effect may be the same but somehow (inaudible at 00:41:13).
THERAPIST: I hear you.
CLIENT: The process feels very different. [00:41:16]
THERAPIST: It is not in a way that...
CLIENT: They're just spilling. They're just saying you know this is my world. This is my universe. Take it or leave it. Whereas for me, at least at this stage, it's more like oh God now I have to deliver it to this other person. And the intensity of that demand or sense of pressure interferes with the ","P1-N400C71":"very same connectedness. I think that's right. I mean I think that's a pretty accurate description of the phenomenology. What the relationship is between these two phenomenon I just don't know.
THERAPIST: We should stop.
CLIENT: Oh. Already? I guess I was not aware of my surroundings. Okay. So Friday I guess?
THERAPIST: Friday.
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: See you then. [00:42:29]