TITLE: Client "A", Session November 30, 2012: Client feels a great deal of relief after finalizing a new occupational deal; however, because so much is riding on it, he fears that he will freeze up and be unable to deliver.
DESCRIPTION: Client feels a great deal of relief after finalizing a new occupational deal; however, because so much is riding on it, he fears that he will freeze up and be unable to deliver.
CLIENT: I will [try to] (ph) pay your bill this weekend.
THERAPIST: Great. You'll pay (inaudible at 00:10) bill?
CLIENT: Maybe next week.
THERAPIST: Nice. Very good timing.
CLIENT: So, the New York is complete. We settled on terms. I'm flying out there on Monday.
THERAPIST: Oh, congratulations.
CLIENT: Thank you. And, you know, it's going to solve the money problems, so (inaudible at 01:13) (laughter)
THERAPIST: Will you have different insurance?
CLIENT: I'll take Cobra while we're figuring out, you know right now I'm a contractor and I think there's some question as to exactly where this project will sit from. But, you know, right now we have a handshake deal that this is something we're going to do. We'll be on the (ph) short term contract. ","P1-N4001D1":"(pause) These are old friends and colleagues and (sighs) on the one hand, I feel just an almost indescribable sense of relief that there's really something that's actually viable for the long term. And, you know, it's clear to me how much of what we've been talking about, really, for the last months ","P1-N4001D2":"has been just stress, sort of kind of existential stress. Not causally (ph). I guess that's the other hand the other hand is I feel concerned that (pause) like I don't want how can I put this? I feel concerned. Let me just put that out there full (inaudible at 02:54). I feel as if this gig is ","P1-N4001D3":"a [inaudible] or rather if this gig is like some kind of silver bullet (inaudible at 03:09). You know, if this gig solves things, solves everything, then so much is riding on it I fear that I won't be able to deliver.
CLIENT: So I guess that's my concern.
THERAPIST: It's something about the extent of your investment in this or kind of dependent (ph) on it will get in the way of your being able to work the way you need to (ph).
CLIENT: It's more complicated in that too, as I think about it out loud here. I'm uncertain about it. It's a huge change. I mean, it's almost huge in a multi-generational sense. I mean, you imagine. Certainly my upbringing was pretty miscellaneous but, you know, I have (pause) it's hard for me to ","P1-N400271":"think of myself joining an organization that will give you, you know, just this insane consulting contract at the drop of a hat. Now, you know, as I sent them my CV and they did a, you know, kind of...
THERAPIST: What's insane about it? [00:05:35]
CLIENT: It's a crazy amount of money. It's just ridiculous. I mean, it's like, you know, it's the establishment. I have to buy a suit. I have to look, you know, really put together. I have to think about how to conduct myself in a manner that's commensurate. You know, once I'm on payroll I won't be ","P1-N4002B1":"able to write letters for the nation. I mean, you know, I've (pause) I don't know if there's a change in values that internally I'm uncertain about but I know how these things works, you know. So if it's going to fly, if the basket is going to have integrity, you know, there's a level on which I genuinely ","P1-N4002B2":"need to commit. I can't be ambivalent about it. And, you know, I'm trying to think about whether I'm capable of it in an organizational sense, you know, conver-freaking-sational (ph) and logistical organizational, et cetera. I think I am. It seems pretty clear to me that those parts of it, if my head ","P1-N4002B3":"is right, I can do. And I think what I fear is that (pause) I don't actually I don't know, I don't know. I don't know if I'm as confident as I just presented myself to be but I definitely fear that I'll be kind of a house divided against myself and then I'll have trouble committing, you know, in ","P1-N4002B4":"the way that I need to commit in order to make this, you know, viable, interpersonally viable, you know, psychically viable, intellectually and so on and so forth. [00:07:22]
THERAPIST: Say that again.
CLIENT: Look, I (pause) it always feels kind of funny and weird to, you know, talk about our relationship issue in this way but I know why I feel resistance or it feels funny. It feels like a self-help book. It feels like (inaudible at 09:43). I guess it sort of boil down to the lowest common denominator. ","P1-N400311":"I wanted her to kind of acknowledge well, I wanted her to acknowledge, you know, what I had been willing to contribute to the relationship by taking this...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 10:14)
CLIENT: ...clearly, clearly, you know, potentially troubled position. And it felt to me like I had done it for the relationship at least. I had made the decision to do this partly at her behest, you know, so we could support a household together. You know, that was, like, the best option at the time. ","P1-N400351":"I wanted not to feel as if some of the angst that I was feeling as a result of this is a direct result of this, you know, kind of professional situation was out of bounds where she knew it was just too much for her to, you know, to kind of assimilate. And I felt angry about that. I felt angry that (pause), ","P1-N400352":"you know, this burden that I had taken on, which has some, you know, significant side effects for me, was just too much for her to bear. The side effects of that were too much to bear. (sighs)
THERAPIST: I see. Like you were blaming her for having...
CLIENT: For how bad that I felt, or at least that's the way that she was feeling. You know, so she would feel blamed and she would feel like I was putting her responsible. She would feel like the situation, you know, the sort of a rationale for taking Phil up on this offer was more complex and I wasn't ","P1-N4003B1":"applying for other jobs in the Boston area that, you know, would be alternative. And she just...
THERAPIST: You wanted to be appreciated and she felt like you were blaming her.
CLIENT: She felt like I was blaming her. And so, you know, I mean, we kind of figured that out yesterday and that was a huge deal. I mean, basically we had this huge blow-up. I'm not great at expressing anger, as you know, and it comes out in some convoluted ways but, you know, I had said to her, you ","P1-N4003F1":"know, as this was sort of bubbling out earlier in the week, you know, let's sort of save that for tomorrow. And I did and I, you know, I yelled. And it was tough. And she responded, you know, the way that she does, which is not yelling but being kind of cold and not very compassionate. [00:12:42]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 16:08)
CLIENT: ....could kind of inhabit this (ph). At the end of the day, that's really the problem. You know, Phil (sp?) and I liked each other and we wanted to work together. Phil (sp?), you know, has some structural limitations that I think he's compounded by the way that he's operated. But at the end ","P1-N400491":"of the day, you know, those are structural limitations and he overpromised, but I expected that overpromise and, you know, I was capable of seeing if he was overpromising. I have that capacity. And, you know, some of the reasons why I ignored that had to do with, you know, Jennie (sp?) and our situation ","P1-N400492":"but some of them, you know, some of them also had to do with me just kind of ignoring things that I saw clearly because I wanted them. So I thought that [owned that] (ph), I think. You know, I wanted the appointment. And on the other hand I said, you know, it was clear to me that there was a kind of ","P1-N400493":"structural weirdness to getting in an instructorship. [00:17:07]
THERAPIST: I don't disagree but I would...
CLIENT: Yeah, you want to (inaudible at 17:14)
THERAPIST: ...put it slightly differently, which is to say that all around you want a home.
CLIENT: I want a home, that's right. Fair enough. (inaudible at 17:26)
THERAPIST: Sure. And I think that (pause) specifically your worry about not having or finding one can make it hard for you to sort of see and acknowledge problems with this sort of unfortunate ironic effect that it makes it harder to then [stand where] (ph) you want.
CLIENT: Yes, OK, perfect. I endorse that. I endorse that fully. So at any rate, you know, so I can kind of see how it happened. I have felt, especially while I was seen with her, I did have a home. So that's very good. You know, now that I have a home, now that I can see a place for me myself to inhabit, ","P1-N400551":"all of these other things suddenly seem easier. And, you know, in a home, in the professional sense, in a home with Jennie (sp?) and they're related to each other in the sense that in order to, like, furnish our home, you know, we need cash. [00:18:41]
THERAPIST: I guess to me the (pause) is the extent of the (pause) anxiety and also anger (pause) that you feel when a home seems in jeopardy. And (pause) I, you know, I hope not. I hope the sailing is as smooth as it could possibly be but life being what it is I imagine there will be moments in the ","P1-N4005B1":"probably not too distant future which will feel like that, both with Jennie (sp?) and with the new job, which is not to say you will in some sense in reality be on a crucifix (ph). And I think you'll feel that way. [00:22:00]
CLIENT: Well, (inaudible at 22:03). OK, so what's the prophylactic intervention here?
THERAPIST: Well...
CLIENT: Just acknowledging it? Just saying, "This is going to come and, you know, you'll have to deal w\/ it better than you have in the past"?
THERAPIST: I think that you're kind of (pause) unwillingness to sort of see that and kind of take it seriously and anticipate it's (ph) much less than it used to be.
CLIENT: Unwillingness is less. My willingness is greater.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you're more willing.
CLIENT: Yeah, I see it clearly. I see it clearly. (pause) That's what you were calling responsibility several weeks ago.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And it's tough and I think it's a very scary thought to know that (pause) in other words, I think your experience of this is, like, kind of less bimodal than it used to be where you were either sort of (inaudible at 23:33). And that requires a kind of ongoing recognition of the worry ","P1-N4006B1":"or the frustration that could be looming (ph), which I think is the ability to kind of tolerate that and do it. I think it's the thing that's somewhat prophylactic because if you don't you wind up getting hit sort of blindsided, is the better word when something happened.
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess one of the things that's scary or that I feel concerned about (pause) is that often I'm often of convetiology (ph) of the feeling and not able to interrupt it. You know, I'm aware that when I'm completely checked out, you know, basically what it's coming from but I can't sort of ","P1-N4006D1":"change my consciousness and respond in a different way. And that's still a big issue and I'm not sorry, become instrumental again in my I feel like I need some way of doing that and I don't yet have it and, you know, I'm entering environmental (inaudible at 25:02)
THERAPIST: So, what could come up at work or with Jennie (sp?) that could (inaudible at 25:15) in other words, what large or small goings-on could in other words, could we look back three months from now and say, "Jeez, maybe we could have called that."
CLIENT: Well, I mean, this often seems to be triggered when I feel, you know, devalued and kind of minimized. And, you know, in an environmentto see some degree I'll be protected in the sense that, you know, apparently Kevin has been saying that I'm coming on board so that, you know, people aren't ","P1-N400711":"going to be openly aiming for me. But, you know, it's like it's a high dollar institution and that means that people are very competitive and they're competitive for, you know, their own credit and they're competitive for their success and that means that, you know, when you have people competing for ","P1-N400712":"those kinds of commodities that means that part of the game is, you know, devaluing the work of other people or, you know, asserting your hierarchical superiority or what have you. [00:26:29]
THERAPIST: What will you actually be doing? What's your role?
CLIENT: So, Kevin came on and one of the things that was kind of a central talking point was what he's been calling for five or four years now a science of delivery, which is essentially, you know, I think the kind of classic attempt to use operational science as it's evolved in the private sector to ","P1-N400791":"improve kind of the tenth yard, you know, improve the implementation of social programs. Basically in a nutshell that's what it is. It's public sector... [00:29:19]
CLIENT: ...not done a really good job of moving from policy to execution. You know, the evaluation of them has been, you know, extensive but not necessarily very effective and the question is whether there are some consistent tools and institutions that can be developed in order to improve how they ","P1-N4007D1":"actually going into practice in all sorts of different Settings and how, you know, you can take a success or a failure in one place and, you know, use it programmatically in another place.
THERAPIST: So...
CLIENT: So we would be responsible for basically sort of orchestrating, organizing, you know, a space for critical evaluation and, you know, institutional development of this idea, of this principle.
THERAPIST: Sort of like theoretic project managing is a big project of...
CLIENT: Yeah. I don't know exactly it's not clear to me and I'm not sure it's clear to anybody at this point, you know, exactly what the formal role will ultimately evolve into. But he kind of wants us to put it together synthetically. It's like, there are all of these pieces, you know. There's a ","P1-N4008D1":"lot of invested interest. People want to push it in one direction or another. And my sense is that he would like us, assuming that I can get my head right, is he said to me pretty openly, quite frankly, and sort of work with people as a team, he wants us to kind of herd the cats. If that's project managing, ","P1-N4008D2":"I guess that's right. [00:33:39]
THERAPIST: You and Jack are somewhat co-equal or...
CLIENT: Yeah, for sure. IN fact, they gave me the same consulting view (ph) they gave Jack. (laughter) And I think that had nothing to do with anybody. I think they just assumed they did my CV to the people who evaluate such things at the bank. So yes, we're co-equal. We're co-equal.
THERAPIST: And you both report to Kevin?
CLIENT: I think I report to Kevin's communications director formally because you can't really report to Kevin unless you're traveling all over the world. That's not where we're at at this point, right now anyway. But, you know, ultimately we report to Kevin in some sense, in the sense that the expectation ","P1-N400971":"is that, you know, he's got this central agenda and he wants us to make it happen. I think that's right. I think, you know, some of it is dependent on, you know, how well it goes over the next few months in terms of how much formal responsibility I ultimately get but I think that if it goes well in ","P1-N400972":"this I mean, I think my responsibility in the immediate term is to kind of get it done on paper, you know, to kind of take the various ideas that people have and to develop, you know, some clear and discreet a work plan, basically. A work plan and associated, you know, like a white paper and some ","P1-N400973":"associated project-related stuff. I think that's what the consultancy's going to be about. He's coming back from China on Monday and we're going to talk with some other people about the stuff. But that's my intuition about... [00:35:40]
THERAPIST: Nope.
CLIENT: Not yet?
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 35:54)
CLIENT: I spent apparently quite a bit of energy anticipating these things.
THERAPIST: I guess so.
CLIENT: And I expect my friends and colleagues in the same way to see if I've overstayed my welcome so it's not a minor sort of interactive dynamic. Just (ph) expecting you to see if it's 8:30.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I imagine you're really anxious about not feeling welcome.
CLIENT: (sighs) Yep, exactly.
THERAPIST: And that that can feel kind of dichotomous. You know, at 8:29 (inaudible at 36:57) comfortable and at 8:30, in 30 seconds, it's a different ballgame.
CLIENT: Sure. I mean, to me (ph) it's kind of, I don't know, a completely different ballgame (inaudible at 37:15) that it's ambiguous but no? Is that...
THERAPIST: Well, tell me about it.
CLIENT: Tell you about it. (pause) Till 8:30 it's my time. After 8:30 it's your time. That's nothing (ph) different.
CLIENT: I'm being a little gross about it but, you know, I think that's how it computes at some level.
THERAPIST: And (pause) what are the implications of that?
CLIENT: What are the implications of that?
THERAPIST: I guess...
CLIENT: I'm thinking about it. I'm not dismissing the question, I'm just sort of considering it. [00:38:30]
THERAPIST: I guess what I think I'm kind of what [I'm realizing] (ph) I have in mind is (pause) I don't quite know how to put it yet but I'll throw something out there. So it's almost like the relationship changing. You know, it's not like you're you and I'm me and the relationship's the same and, ","P1-N400C11":"you know, it has this boundary or limitation to it. It's like the arrangement's different between us, you know what I mean?
CLIENT: I mean, the only (ph) thing that provoked a similar worry, I think is the best way to put it on my art or at least sort of statement of, you know, the terms of interaction was my debt to you. That (ph) the dynamics, how I think about that debt, initially at least, provoked a similar sort of ","P1-N400C31":"worry. We negotiated over it and I don't feel great about how well I delivered on my end of it but, you know, I did get a sense in the end that, you know, we're managing it as best we can and our relationship hadn't really changed, you know, that we could kind of interact in the same way despite the ","P1-N400C32":"fact that in some sense I was on your time just to try to use the same terms of reference. [00:40:19]
CLIENT: My father used to say, when we complained about my grandmother's cooking I think I mentioned this to you before maybe "It's more a blessing to receive than to give." [00:42:01]
THERAPIST: Meaning?
CLIENT: Meaning that (pause) well, the sort of usual expression is, "It's more a blessing to give than to receive." And I think what he was saying was that, you know, you need to...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 42:28)
CLIENT: You need to be able to accept things when people offer them to you, you know, without being resentful or appreciating that this is part of your relationship, is receiving things as well as giving them. Does that make sense? That's how I understood it anyway. You know she's an old lady. It makes ","P1-N400D11":"her happy to give us things. But the kind of larger point that I've always imperfectly (inaudible at 42:55) past precedent would suggest that I've always taken from it is that, you know, in any relationship there's some accepting and if you're not good at accepting or accepting means that you become ","P1-N400D12":"constrained or feel constrained or altered in the relationship then that's a bad thing. You know, you have to how to accept things and not feel as if, you know, you've done a terrible thing that alters the relationship entirely.
THERAPIST: I don't see those things as sort of different in a way, in a sense that there's no place that's 100 percent home and there's no relationship that's 100 percent right (ph) and reliable. And it can be difficult to sort of be OK with the uncertainties and limitations and (inaudible at 44:41).
CLIENT: I think so, I think so. OK. Your time.
THERAPIST: Yeah, we should stop.
CLIENT: So I will see you on Wednesday. I'm back oh, wait problem. I'm coming back Wednesday morning after. I think yeah, I get back at 10:46. So if we can't reschedule then we should just plan on meeting Friday.
THERAPIST: I'm (ph) looking at later Wednesday or Thursday or Friday.
CLIENT: Do you want me to call you and you can look at...
THERAPIST: No, it's OK. At the moment because I know I just (inaudible at 45:22) for somebody late in the day yesterday. I don't think I have it (inaudible at 45:25) so if you don't hear from me let's just assume we're on for Friday. But if I can find something or something (ph) opens up, I will let you know.
CLIENT: That sounds great (ph). OK (inaudible at 45:37). I'll see you next week
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Bye.
THERAPIST: Bye.