TITLE: Client "A", Session August 21, 2013: Client discusses his frustration over his wife's difficulties with her job, which is only giving her a short period of maternity leave. Client discusses his current job situation.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses his frustration over his wife's difficulties with her job, which is only giving her a short period of maternity leave. Client discusses his current job situation.
THERAPIST: Couple (inaudible). The first one is I'm going to need to be out here September 4th.
CLIENT: You're going to need to be out on September 4th?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: Just in the morning. If I can reschedule I will let you know, but I'll probably know more next week on that. The other is a question, which is can you could you switch from 7:45 Wednesdays to 7:45 Mondays?
CLIENT: Sure. That would be fine.
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: Starting 7\/1?
THERAPIST: Well let me try to configure to accommodate as many (inaudible) as possible. I figured that might be (inaudible) for you.
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah, for me it's the same.
THERAPIST: OK. So I should know up through by next week.
CLIENT: OK. [00:00:58]
THERAPIST: Oh. (inaudible).
CLIENT: Well, there are no family act says that you can't get fired when you get back, but they don't have to pay you while you're gone. No, that's foolish.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:02:00].
CLIENT: So basically unless she goes back to teaching after about three weeks and finishes the semester, we will only have my salary.
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: And if it weren't for this, I would probably just tell them to go fuck themselves. That's it just gets worse and worse. So that feels that feels like a frustrating constraint on some level, as well as just in our household.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: She's feeling very disheartened, and I think that's ultimately beyond the practical issue, household appliances, it's tough. [00:03:10]
THERAPIST: I guess I'm not sure yet what I could say. What else comes to mind?
CLIENT: I don't know. I had coffee with the supervisor I've known for a long time, the policy director (inaudible). [00:17:04]
THERAPIST: So I think, I think it might work like this. You know, I run into a lot of what you said, is the way you or other people have been insulted, really. [00:23:18]
CLIENT: I don't know, I don't know, Marshall. I'm not persuaded. I'm not persuaded. Maybe, I mean, (inaudible) a different matter, I think. I mean, it's kind of, you know, I was thinking through, you know, a kind of (inaudible), you know, conceptual framework on Friday, where you know, I'm kind of caught ","P1-N400691":"between, you know, the thesis of being in a situation that makes me angry, and kind of looking for those situations, almost seeking them out, situations where I'm not going to be well-served. [00:26:08]
THERAPIST: If that's (inaudible) all how it feels or what you react to, kind of in those sorts of situations in any of the work venues that we've talked about. I mean, like after (inaudible), "Oh, you know, it's not their job to give me something to do." I mean, that, you know, that's like a really ","P1-N4006F1":"small piece compared to ...
CLIENT: Yeah, but I guess what I'm trying to say is that your, in your you just made an interesting proposal. (inaudible) offices that you know, it's if I manage this anger in a more constructive way, you know, maybe (inaudible) a lot of it it's negotiation over the phone repair, phone replacement. [00:29:07]
THERAPIST: I think an important part of it is, sort of insult and feeling humiliated and that leaving, in addition, and to removing you from the kind of sort of the anger is also a kind of "fuck you, I'm out of here," or at least (inaudible).
CLIENT: No, no, I'm not sure. Maybe there's a "fuck you" element to it, but I think you could also interpret it just as trying to take some agency, you know, in a less melodramatic way. At any rate, so maybe that's part of it, but, you know, I think both of those themes really suggest that your hypothesis ","P1-N4007B1":"is one that, you know, that I also kind of intuitively grasped and pursued and acted on, and I'm not sure it's true. [00:32:07]
THERAPIST: Yeah, except that ...
CLIENT: I don't know who I just don't know.
THERAPIST: I mean ...
CLIENT: I don't know what I'm qualified for. I may not be qualified for anything. I may be deskilled. It happens in this economy. You've had a chance to evaluate me. [00:34:01]
THERAPIST: All right, I guess the evidence to me being the evidence to me that like you possess the capacity like the capability and having the talent, those two find work and to do it very well are overwhelming, like, you know, you at moments clearly outthink and out-write people like Phil (ph) or ","P1-N4008D1":"various other people at your job, or people at very high levels who are clearly very impressed with your work. And, who, in spite of, you know, for (inaudible) bring you back and seem to want to make it work and really run with ideas or other things that you have they are very excited about. [00:36:12]
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: That, I mean, it screams hysteria.
CLIENT: Yeah, OK.
THERAPIST: I mean, you know, I'm (inaudible) a little bit, but ...
CLIENT: All right.
THERAPIST: But the idea that you're pulling in like, OK.
CLIENT: There is there is some confusion about why I haven't quit.
THERAPIST: You have some confusion why you haven't quit, or ...?
CLIENT: Well, I certainly do. I mean, like why?
THERAPIST: Or the people around you?
CLIENT: Yeah, I mean, I was talking to Marcia (ph), the woman that we Providence Consulting Group, the woman that we hired to you know, to be on the ground for awhile. And she was just like, "Oh man, I would have quit months ago." And the premise of her saying that, and kind of the subtext, and ","P1-N400A91":"tone was you know, you could have anything else. Like why are you hanging around here? [00:40:04]
THERAPIST: All right, I think I'm (inaudible).
CLIENT: (inaudible). There is something funny going on, but I don't know what the right response is, and as I say, I think these previous, you know, sort of, these abdications have, you know, which I'm very consciously in some sense, one of the reasons I've come on for so long, apart from everything ","P1-N400AF1":"else, is that I really do want to advocate again. I didn't want to kind of just get angry and then just leave. That didn't do anything good for me.
THERAPIST: Well, I think ...
CLIENT: I don't think leaving would have been wrong, but it was had something about the manner of my leaving was not I considered, it was reactive and very unproductive. So ... [00:41:53]
THERAPIST: (inaudible), I'd say two things to relate to that. The first is about what you're just saying. I see it a little bit differently. I think, actually, you have now a somewhat better ability to contain what you're feeling and a capacity to be less reactive. In other words, you have known this ","P1-N400B51":"for many, you have known this is a problem for many iterations of it, and I think, you know, the last time you the last three times that you were reactive and did leave, it wasn't because you thought in your head this is a great idea, it was probably because you couldn't contain the upset.
CLIENT: Sounds good.
THERAPIST: Take care.
CLIENT: I have a question before we leave, just you don't need to answer, we can talk about it Friday. The transcripts. What are your feelings about the patient looking at them?
THERAPIST: Let me think about it (inaudible). OK. All right. I'll see you at (inaudible).
CLIENT: See you.