TITLE: Client "A", Session August 16, 2013: Client discusses whether or not he is being exploited at his current job. Client discusses his issues getting work done after having heated discussions with his boss.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses whether or not he is being exploited at his current job. Client discusses his issues getting work done after having heated discussions with his boss.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Both the exploitation and the sort of gravy train for, you know, other, this sort of the ... You know, so there is some kind of recursive function here, but I think also, you know, this exchange has taken on a kind of (inaudible) quality that I recognize and just, with a level of anger and outrage ","P1-N400371":"that I feel, which is not just specific, it's, you know, it's kind of logical. [00:14:09]
THERAPIST: (inaudible) you were exploited? [00:14:54]
CLIENT: I feel as if my commitment, affection, tolerance for ambiguity, I don't know, you know, willingness to think the best of people, willingness to suspend my nagging sense that, you know, they're in it for themselves, by communal instincts, I don't know, have been exploited and when, you know, ","P1-N4003D1":"I asked for some repayment for those affections or commitment or effort or skill or talent or what have you, I was just told, you know, hierarchically, you know, I outrank you, so I don't have to follow through on our agreement. [00:16:09]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So, I mean, I as I reflect on, you know, the feeling or emotion that I feel that, you know, is sort of engulfing me to the point where I really can't do things that are clearly in my interest, I sense, you know, tendrils of this emotion just sort of extending out, you know, back into the mists ","P1-N400431":"of time, and it's like, anyway. [00:17:07]
THERAPIST: Yeah, it's almost like a way of remembering.
CLIENT: Almost like a way of remembering. By which you mean to say that it is like a way of remembering. By which you mean to say that I am remembering.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: What is like a way of remembering?
THERAPIST: Being angry in just this way.
CLIENT: Being angry in just this way.
THERAPIST: With in just this context, anyway.
CLIENT: Angry in just this context. So your hypothesis would be that I'm preserving myself in this setting where I get angry because otherwise it would be difficult for me to integrate myself across time. [00:18:10]
THERAPIST: I'm saying it sure seems to work that way, among other ways. I'm not saying that's the whole cause, but I am saying like that it's part of how this is working to do just that.
CLIENT: But that's not exactly what you said, you said, "It's a way of," which I'll restate as, "a strategy for." [00:19:00]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: So at some level, (inaudible) the unconscious, I'm preserving this homeostasis.
THERAPIST: Yes. Yeah, and I'm not saying I think that's the total explanation, but I, yes.
CLIENT: And the alternative would be not remembering, presumably. [00:19:57]
THERAPIST: I mean, I guess I can think of a few alternatives.
CLIENT: No, but I mean, if it's the way that some level, if it's a strategy, at some level, you know, there's evaluation of one kind or another in which, if I don't pursue this that I won't be able to get the desired result.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So what's the alternative?
THERAPIST: I guess it's the disintegration across time, (inaudible).
CLIENT: Maybe. (pause) [00:21:03]
THERAPIST: All right. So this is complicated, what just happened between you and me around this. (pause) [00:22:02]
CLIENT: I'm not conscious of blaming you at all.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I mean, I think it was a genuinely informational question when I asked you to kind of help me parse what you were proposing. I have, at time, felt frustrated with, you know, a sense that I was being blamed or being responsible for something that I don't want to be made responsible for, but I'm ","P1-N4007B1":"not conscious of having had, you know, that kind of resentment. [00:22:55]
THERAPIST: OK. (inaudible)
CLIENT: Now, you know, I mean, there's (inaudible) emotions at work here, so I'm sure I'm capable of not being aware of them.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: No, I mean, I think it's obvious that I'm responsible for not walking at any given point. I, you know, responsibility for not being able to work because I'm angry, for me at least, rightly or wrongly, is murkier. But you know, responsibility for the clear-cut series of decisions to remain in, ","P1-N400831":"you know, a web of relationships that's been completely unfulfilling to me. That's another story. So, you know, that raises, you know, the questions that we've been grappling with today so far. [00:23:57]
THERAPIST: Right. (pause) [00:25:12]
CLIENT: But here's the thing, Marshall. I mean, at a certain point, you know, either there's a reality to it, or there's not. In other words, you know, so I remember one time I was talking with Phil (ph) and I was just furious because they just the department had just written back saying we're offering ","P1-N4008D1":"you this lectureship which is useless, and I applied for my own grants. [00:26:58]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And, you know, I had a conversation with Phil (ph) and I felt much better. Well, the reality is the reality. You know, at a certain point, it's like you can string these, you know, kind of placatory conversations together for only so long before you either say, "OK, well the reality here is ","P1-N400911":"that this is not going to work, so I need to walk," or you know, I'm going to, you know, say, "OK, you know, the buck stops here." You know, this is the end of the road.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You know, so that is another way of understanding this. Like it wasn't so much that these conversations were functional as these conversations were, you know, just sort of dissociative in some sort of broader sense. [00:27:59]
THERAPIST: I guess ...
CLIENT: What the difference in this between this conversation and the others that you could say?
THERAPIST: I mean, I guess I had in mind a model which I don't completely like, but I'll say it anyway. [00:29:07]
CLIENT: I said that earlier.
THERAPIST: And ...
CLIENT: I want my return on investment.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And your maybe that isn't maybe that's complicated. [00:30:07]
CLIENT: Helped me to get back into this, you know, that is complicated. So if I understand you correctly, what you're saying is that on the one hand, there is this analysis or framework, you know, that implies that my persistence in, you know, a situation that's not very good for me, you know, is out ","P1-N400AF1":"of the continuity provided by anger at it's, you know, various ways in which it's not good for me.
THERAPIST: Right. [00:31:58]
CLIENT: And then another complementary, you know, contiguous framework is one in which, what is it? What is it that you're proposing?
THERAPIST: In which the repair, or something that feels at the time like repair, is, I don't know, helpful, satisfying, feels good, reassures you, I'm not sure what, something good. I mean, it lets you get back to work.
CLIENT: So that what I'm craving is that sense of ...
THERAPIST: Repair.
CLIENT: Repair, resolution. That serial resolution and, you know, the two, you can't have one without the other. You can't have the repair without the ... OK, well that's some of the complex function. I see what you mean. [00:33:11]
THERAPIST: And let me, again, it's not a model here. It reminds me sort of like like I throw a trauma model where and the person kind of walks in master of the trauma, and have to get themself into the situation where the trauma could recur or does recur, in order to provide the opportunity. [00:34:05]
CLIENT: But there's no, in this system, there's and it's totally obvious that structurally there's no possibility of my mastering this trauma.
THERAPIST: But there are times to you when it feels, I think.
CLIENT: Like I might be able to.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Like there might be a prospect for somehow mastering it.
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Yeah. It sounds right.
THERAPIST: Is often the sort of how it goes with this sort of thing. You know what I mean? Like -
CLIENT: It sounds right. I'm just never going to get my investment of trauma or anger or outrage or, you know, being offended against. I'm never going to get it out. I'm never going to get the it's just not going to happen. I lost. [00:34:59]
THERAPIST: And I think the question that you're really grappling with is whether you're going to be able to stop trying. (pause) [00:36:05]
CLIENT: Well, and I think the question I'm grappling with in the most immediate sense is whether, you know, what is still on the table, which is frankly fine. You know, I think I successfully won the argument about, you know, being a director rather than being a manager, won the argument about being, ","P1-N400D71":"you know, having it be something about international programs rather, without meaning, yeah, it deals with our kind of ...
THERAPIST: Oh, a couple minutes.
CLIENT: So, I mean, so that's the way that it presents itself to me right now. You know, and I think there are sort of high-level manifestations of that, and low-level manifestations of that. High-level manifestations of that, you know, am I just going to say, you know, "Take this and shove it"? [00:39:02]
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Low-level manifestations of that, am I just going to like not write this grant? And neither of them am I fully, you know, maybe being, sort of working this through as we are right now and being a little more conscious of what's going on allows me to be less reflexive about it in both cases. ","P1-N400E71":"Hopefully that's the return on investment that I get from our conversation. But yeah.
THERAPIST: And so I think part of what you're implying is that not writing the proposal or telling them to shove it would be a way of like expressing and then being able to give up on the anger. [00:40:25]
CLIENT: Yeah, it's like it's interesting. It's like on the one hand, it's an expression of anger. On the other hand, it's a solution to anger. You know, if the ...
THERAPIST: I see, it's not just disengaging, it's kind of letting go, that's the fantasy.
CLIENT: Yeah, it's both, you know, just sort of giving expression to the thing itself, and just divesting myself of the ambition of ever coming to resolution. [00:41:02]
THERAPIST: That part has been, I think, less clear somehow to me, particularly in things like writing is a little more clear like leaving.
CLIENT: Well, the writing always feels like a kind of suicide. I think I've said that to you before. It's like it's something that makes.
THERAPIST: I can see now how it fits. I just hadn't picked up on that. It's a kind of effort towards just letting this all go, walking away from the dynamic from the situations that make you so angry and infuriated. [00:42:03]
CLIENT: The situations, relationships. OK.
THERAPIST: We should stop here.
CLIENT: Good (inaudible).