TITLE: Client "J", Session December 14, 2012: Client likes the fact that the therapist is late to their sessions on occasion; it takes the pressure off of him.
DESCRIPTION: Client likes the fact that the therapist is late to their sessions on occasion; it takes the pressure off of him.
CLIENT: Did you do the letter?
THERAPIST: Fuck. No. I will shit. I'm sorry. I will get it done today and send it to you.
CLIENT: OK, because my lawyer is leaving on Monday. So I don't know. I don't know if he needs if he's submitting everything at once or...
THERAPIST: OK.
CLIENT: ...you know.
THERAPIST: I'm so sorry. (pause) All right, I'll try to get it to you as quickly as I can.
CLIENT: Yea. Well, do what you can do.
THERAPIST: Yea. Now I feel bad. (pause) [0:01:01] Yea. I had it written down. I had a couple of clinical crises and that's sort of blown up my week. But I will...
CLIENT: People suck.
THERAPIST: I will...
CLIENT: See, here once again, it's like other people getting in my way. Pretty good, huh? (chuckling)
THERAPIST: (chuckling) That was pretty good. Yea, but still it's my fault that I didn't mail it to you. I just forgot to do it.
CLIENT: Now you have to add some extra really some pathetic stuff there.
THERAPIST: (chuckling) Dealing with an unreliable therapist.
CLIENT: Yea, it's not shocking. I was going to send you a reminder but I just kind of took the whole day off yesterday. Had to go to E&G (ph) and got up to the office and I just I don't know. [0:02:00] I didn't feel that good.
THERAPIST: Am I generally unreliable?
CLIENT: Generally?
THERAPIST: Yea.
CLIENT: No, but you have some idiosyncrasies such as running late which is not unreliability. But I mean, it has nothing to do with your competence level.
THERAPIST: I see. Well, tell me about it. So I run late.
CLIENT: You run late.
THERAPIST: What else?
CLIENT: You forgot my letter.
THERAPIST: Forgot your letter.
CLIENT: You run late.
THERAPIST: And I run late, yea.
CLIENT: Yea.
THERAPIST: And what do you make of the lateness?
CLIENT: You have kids.
THERAPIST: (chuckling) I think that it feels neglectful, sloppy.
CLIENT: I think there's an expectation out of professionals that they run late. [0:03:00] So it doesn't bother me. I'm used to...
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: ...lawyers and doctors and therapists.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I used to show up to my GI who I should really go see. But I would get there and I made a mistake of making some late afternoon appointments where I was waiting forever. So I make morning appointments. Like the first appointment in the morning. And I'd still be waiting two hours because he would ","P1-N4004F1":"get some emergency.
THERAPIST: Right, people covering emergencies or something.
CLIENT: They'd probably worked that out. But the last couple times I went, I was always amazed. It was like they had a big sign up that if you have any comments or complaints or anything like that. So you need [inaudible] (ph) to come in and run your practice.
THERAPIST: I see. Well, I will look into that.
CLIENT: And you know you're a solo guy. So it's like you've got to do things that other people could be doing for you. I do the same thing. Am I late? No.
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: Not often. But I plan because my what I do reflects on other people. [0:05:00] So if I screw up, they're going to blame the mortgage broker saying this incompetent attorney.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Or if I'm late because of the docs, they blame I've got sort of customer service as part of my job.
THERAPIST: I see. It...
CLIENT: I'm going to people's homes.
THERAPIST: It causes trouble for people who you want to have good relationships with.
CLIENT: Right. I mean, some people are very understanding. They're at home. They're not going anywhere.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: They're so glad that you're coming to their home at 6 o'clock after work.
THERAPIST: That they don't care if (inaudible at 0:05:38).
CLIENT: That they don't care, yea. Other people, it's like putting the kids to the bed. They're very, "We've only got an hour. I've got to go pick up and drop the kids at soccer." There's always so I plan for traffic and to get there early.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Now I'm still sometimes late. [0:06:02] Sometimes just flake when I'm busy. I don't flake as much when I the [feeling clothes] (ph) that I have.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: My thought (ph), you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's like today I've got Micah (ph) at four. It's the only thing on my schedule other than you. So it's like I won't flake on it today. Well, I think she's going to charge me the next time I flake on her.
THERAPIST: She hasn't been charging you?
CLIENT: No. And I think I've done it twice. No. You, I've done it twice to you. I've done it once to her. (chuckling) I used to do it to my chiropractor. It's funny because it's like regular it should be part of my regular schedule to...
THERAPIST: At least with here, two flakes over the time that we've been meeting is a pretty low flake rate. [0:07:04]
CLIENT: I guess so.
THERAPIST: Stuff does happened.
CLIENT: Some of it's just been I confuse the times between Tuesday and Friday. That happens all the time. But usually I because of the amount of traffic, I haven't been riding my bike. I leave a little earlier just to make sure I get through the traffic and find a parking spot. It's worth the extra ","P1-N400891":"quarter. I get my coffee. Cranberry pecan rolls been my recent. Not as many calories as the scone. Not as much butter.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So how productive I'm going to be Monday is not very. I e-mailed my client about the continuance. I haven't heard back yet. So he's in Germany. So I don't know what time he gets stuff in. And I thought about it and it's really just not getting paid by these people. [0:10:06] Hopefully one day, ","P1-N400911":"I do get paid. But I'm being paid right now. And it's like why push a futile motion and take effort because I didn't go in on Monday or Tuesday. So I literally have one day to oppose this thing because of just not going in on the office...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...on Friday and sending in my mail.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And I've got so many days to respond. And I'm like my I really just didn't have a good argument other than to continue. My only sort of practical redress was to continue the case. So I'm going to try some other tact to get her to do the pretrial. Just file a motion to compel or something like ","P1-N400991":"that. The problem is, is people I know who do this kind of stuff have never done gotten this far. [0:11:01] It just usually settles or...
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So getting advice for this kind of stuff is...
THERAPIST: Yea, tough.
CLIENT: ...hard to find. (pause) I just need to pick out the standing I mean there's a standing order. So to say that court is never ordered something you can't say it's a standing order. You got to do it with the court. It's already been ordered. It's automatically ordered in every case. That's what ","P1-N400A11":"a standing order is. So I've got to write her a nasty letter explaining to her what a standing order is. And that the court did issue an order. And then I'll ask for the sanction of dismissing the case for her unwillingness to prosecute. [0:12:05]
THERAPIST: I...
CLIENT: I don't know how we got on this subject.
THERAPIST: I wish I had written your letter. I feel bad about not writing it. And I feel I wish I was more punctual. [0:12:57] But I think these ways I fuck up a bit put you at ease a little because...
CLIENT: Well, I don't have to worry about being late. I'm late. I used to freak out trying to get here when I was coming from the other side of town. Just the traffic to get here and I was always...
THERAPIST: Well, I think it sort of takes the onus off you. It makes you feel less like you're the one fucking things up. I mean, like...
CLIENT: I get to make fun of you.
THERAPIST: You get to make fun of me. That' right. (chuckling) I mean, you sound much more kind of confident and...
CLIENT: I've accepted it. [0:14:00]
THERAPIST: On top of things. You know but I think...
CLIENT: Don't put that in my letter.
THERAPIST: (chuckling) ...you were sounding much shakier about it on Tuesday. And I'm sure some of it...
CLIENT: Something happened yesterday. And I don't know if it was sending this e-mail or not because I was very anxious about sending the e-mail.
THERAPIST: This is the e-mail to...
CLIENT: To my client about just the fact that this is that he made changes Thanksgiving reservations...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...for a trial that's not going to happen. And him asking me, he's like, "Is this date certain?" And I'm like, "I can't guarantee anything." And but I was very just anxious. At night, I was anxious. I was just and I went into the office and I think the anxiousness kind of made me not want ","P1-N400C31":"to do any work. [0:15:00] And just so I paid some bills and went and picked up my medicine. And bought some gifts for the kids for Hanukkah and then just did nothing.
THERAPIST: Yep. [0:16:01]
CLIENT: Where here it's like things are so far out of my control.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: That should that and I tell people, up front, it's going to be a bumpy road. But these people are extra sensitive and they think all this stuff is intentional. And really the attorney from the other side can't do anything, right? She sends me the motion and then you're supposed to put a certificate ","P1-N400CD1":"of service on every motion you file that you've served it. That's the attorney and officer of the court saying that they've served something on a certificate is supposed to be sufficient that it was actually served on that date put in the mail. And she didn't do it on this last motion. She fucked up ","P1-N400CD2":"the summary judgment motion. She's scheduled the trial when she already had a trial scheduled. [0:17:00] And I think that it wasn't intentional. I just think she's that...
THERAPIST: Incompetent.
CLIENT: ...she's busy and just flies by the seat of her pants all the time.
THERAPIST: How interesting. Again this seems like...
CLIENT: But they...
THERAPIST: ...it sounds like the same thing I was just talking about, maybe. Where once her fucking up is clear, it really reassures you.
CLIENT: But I can't convey that to my client though.
THERAPIST: I understand. But you, I think, are feeling a lot more confident needs to be the whole case. It's like OK. She's not being sort of strategic and cleverly difficult and putting me in a possible position where my hands are tied and I'm helpless. She's just fucking up because she's incompetent.
CLIENT: Yea.
THERAPIST: All right. No problem. I guess I think that helps you to feel more at ease and more like you can just you don't have to be so responsible for everything. [0:18:07] Like that I can do what I can do. I'll tell my client here's what happened. And if he says, "Well, can you be sure of that ","P1-N400DF1":"date?" "No not really. It's just the way it is." Whereas before it seems like you were feeling much more responsible for, Oh my God. He changed his ticket. And I don't even know if this is going to happen. I guess it seems to me like part of the (inaudible at 0:18:27) in there was may have been sort ","P1-N400DF2":"of realizing or deciding that she was not equipped to do everything.
CLIENT: I had to go through some analysis of this because I got the motion and I noticed there was no certificate of service. Because I went off the date on the letter instead of, you know. So technically I could not I could file my opposition whenever I want because there's no she can't prove that ","P1-N400E11":"she served it because she didn't file the certificate. She can file it late, I guess. [0:19:01]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So maybe she's...
THERAPIST: Like she doesn't have much incentive.
CLIENT: Yea. So if she's busy so then she's always coming from somewhere running late into the motion session. [0:20:03] But I couldn't figure out a way to convey this to my client. So I didn't even bring it up in the letter. But I know that's going to be part of the response. So I was just preparing ","P1-N400EB1":"myself. And that's when it just kind of dawned on me that she's just you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...without even knowing the facts of the case.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I just did it's mind boggling to me that we would go to trial without a pretrial motion (inaudible at 0:21:45). And I'll just attach the e-mails and the letter I sent. I probably should send the letter at the beginning of the week. [0:22:02] Or once we get a new trial date, send the letter ","P1-N400F71":"demanding it. Give her a week to do it. And if she doesn't, file a motion. Maybe just the filing of the motion will get her to do the pretrial. I don't know. I want to get Jess involved but she gives me advice that I don't like.
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: She'd call the clerk. Call the clerk. Call the clerk. I hate calling the clerk.
THERAPIST: That's what you said, yea.
CLIENT: And that's the thing. It's like depending who you speak to. She probably spoke to someone not the actual session clerk but just one of the administrative clerks. Who was probably just like, "Oh, don't worry about it." I don't know. [0:23:01] I can't see the clerk telling her she can't do ","P1-N400FF1":"it. Because the session clerk when I had an issue with something and I wanted to make sure that they got notice properly she's like, "Oh, I'll send out another notice so there's no..." So I don't know. They never sent a notice out for the trial which she is saying the reason she needs to continue ","P1-N400FF2":"the case because she never got notice of the trial. It's like you picked the fucking date in court...
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: ...with a judge.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It's too bad they don't record these. It would take a year to get the transcript anyway. So it's you know. (chuckling) [0:24:01] I've got the registry today. This title has I just I was in the registry and I it's kind of screwed up what they did. And I just kept forgetting to do little ","P1-N401071":"things. And I meant to go into the registry yesterday morning and I didn't. And then I was going to after I went to CVS and the park and I didn't. So I don't know. (pause) [0:25:00] (pause for one minute)
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: And what I intended it was that it was her and her mom and then her baby doll.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Because she loves her baby doll. In fact, Jess texted me once, "Did you take it with you because I think Lucille (ph) might think dada took baby doll." They couldn't find it. But then she changed it to mama. I was kicked out of the play mobile family. But she's definitely every time I see ","P1-N401111":"her getting a little more I mean, she gets tired. So saying good bye isn't always smooth but...
THERAPIST: But she's getting more and more choice (ph), yea?
CLIENT: Yea.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's great. (inaudible at 0:21:45).
CLIENT: I don't know what's going to happen though when Hanukkah is over I'm not there every night.
THERAPIST: Have you been there every night for Hanukkah? [0:28:02]
CLIENT: Yea. Tonight, Ian (ph) is going over a friend's house. So he's going to light the candles over there. So...
THERAPIST: Tomorrow is the last night?
CLIENT: I don't know. Yea, I think so. Thank God. Ian (ph) likes it. He puts the candles in there. So I show up and the candles are already in the menorah. He knows one small part of the prayer and I have him repeat it every word after I say it. So I go, "Baruch." He goes, "Baruch." I go, "Atah." He ","P1-N401211":"goes, "Atah." And then he goes, "Adonai Eloheinu," real quick. Or whatever it's supposed to be. But it'd be good that he's going over a real Jew's house tonight can't use electronic toys after sundown.
THERAPIST: Oh, wow.
CLIENT: And he's he told me that. He goes, "At Ethan's, I'm not allowed we can't use..." [0:29:04] So I was like, "Yea, it's the Sabbath." He's like, "Is that the same as Shabbat?" I'm like, "Yea." Smart kid. But that'll be good that he sees he'll like it. He seems to like ritual and that kind ","P1-N401251":"of stuff. (pause)
THERAPIST: Kind of like...
CLIENT: Ski boot, yea, which is much easier to put on than a lace up skate. [0:31:05]
THERAPIST: I used to hockey skate, yea.
CLIENT: If you're playing hockey, you want a lace up skate to get them really tight. (pause) Or skating it's at 8:00. It's not at 9:00. It's at 8:00. The raffle is at 10:00. I don't know. But I've been suckered into taking him to the skating because it's cold. And Lucille (ph) Jess doesn't want ","P1-N401311":"to take Lucille (ph) because it's cold because there's nothing for her to do.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: In January, he's going to start his snowboarding on Sunday. So it's like I'm my weekends are going to be...
THERAPIST: Does that interfere with the games?
CLIENT: It might. [0:32:00] It might. We're going to miss a lesson while we're out but it's the playoffs.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So it's hard to beat (ph). I don't know when the games are going to be. And Jess is just going to have to suck it up and it's an hour. But hopefully we don't have any early games. So I don't know. Thing on Sunday they have two later games. Or maybe Saturday is when they do that. I don't know. ","P1-N4013D1":"Because I got to take him next week to get pre-fitted for his equipment so they don't waste time when he shows up.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It was a good idea. Have you done that before? Have you...
THERAPIST: No. Is he excited?
CLIENT: I don't know. I don't know.
THERAPIST: That's kind of a thing to be pretty into.
CLIENT: Yea. I think I don't know. [0:33:01] I think he still sees himself as a soccer player. And he's really into the skating. He wants to do figure skating.
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: I've got my son who doesn't want to play football or hockey.
THERAPIST: I'm laughing at the expression on your face. Not the thought of him figure skating, yea.
CLIENT: So but I'd rather him do gymnastics than figure skating. But yes, so maybe he is excited. I haven't asked him. He'll get excited once he sees all the cool equipment he gets to wear. Helmet loves the helmet. He'll probably say, "Can I wear my hockey helmet with the face mask and the guard?" ","P1-N401511":"[0:34:02] He's probably going to wonder why my helmet doesn't have a cage.
THERAPIST: Did you play hockey?
CLIENT: I played roller hockey,
THERAPIST: Oh, so that's why you have a helmet.
CLIENT: So that's why I have the helmet. And it's an old, cheap helmet. I don't even remember if I bought it new or not. But I kind of imagine that if I hit my head on the ice, this thing is not going to protect me. It's got a pad in there that thick.
THERAPIST: I see. (inaudible at 0:34:30).
CLIENT: It might help me, I guess. I don't know. But it's not the newest of technologies. I generally don't fall down. Bet he'll like that. So I can make him try and keep up with me. C'mon buddy. [0:35:00] He likes the crates because he can go fast every week he gets a little faster without the crates. ","P1-N4015D1":"And I made the reservations for my gramma's birthday.
THERAPIST: It looks like you're enjoying the children.
CLIENT: Briefly, yea.
THERAPIST: Yea.
CLIENT: It's like I get there and I want to leave after 15, 20 minutes and I stretch it to an hour or so. So there's only so much I can take of them.
THERAPIST: Yea.
CLIENT: I don't know that I'm enjoying Saturday and Sunday mornings. Once I have a feeling they take these kids up on the hill pretty quickly. But once he can go up on the hill, then I'll go up with him after his lesson. [0:36:01] So that should be fun. He'll probably end up being much faster than me.
THERAPIST: Probably.
CLIENT: He's all banged up from skating though.
THERAPIST: Oh, really.
CLIENT: So I'm hoping that he doesn't fall and hurt himself. Because that can happen where you have one really nasty fall and it makes you gun shy for a while. And I don't want him to hurt himself and then just totally be soured on it.
THERAPIST: Yea. Well, it's my it sounds like he's not a real inhibited kid but he's not a full on dare devil either.
CLIENT: No. No. But he falls. He goes and sits down. And then after two minutes, he wants to go back out there. So it's not like he's letting the injuries he's not a hypochondriac or whiner or anything like that. But yea, he is tentative about stuff cautious. When he gets out of the car, he's terrified ","P1-N401751":"of another car...
THERAPIST: Oh, really.
CLIENT: ...coming down the street or even attention on. He just I don't know.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:37:05) a little worried.
CLIENT: He's a little wuss. So no, he wants to roughhouse. He likes to roughhouse. But we can't right before bed. So I always used to get in trouble for that. He usually ends up getting hurt too.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: I'm bigger than him. I can't help it.
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: They're just so easy to toss around and jump on. Something regrettably happens. As long as he's not bleeding. I don't know if Lucille (ph) is going to be into roughhousing. Probably not. [0:38:05]
THERAPIST: Maybe.
CLIENT: She's probably going to be a dare devil.
THERAPIST: Oh, yea?
CLIENT: Because Ian (ph) comes flying by her and she doesn't even flinch. And she's not afraid of the stairs. Or she kind of knows when she needs helps. But she sees everything that Ian (ph) does and...
THERAPIST: She wants to do it.
CLIENT: ...she's so far advanced from where he was. And he was playing with blocks at this age. She's playing with play mobile men or what she calls her guys.
THERAPIST: Her guys?
CLIENT: Yea, "my guys."
THERAPIST: That's pretty cute.
CLIENT: So I bought her more guys. And they're her guys. "Mys, mys."
THERAPIST: Mys.
CLIENT: She...
THERAPIST: Nobody better...
CLIENT: Take them.
THERAPIST: ...(inaudible at 0:39:05). Yea.
CLIENT: Of course she thinks everything is hers. So...
THERAPIST: Naturally.
CLIENT: And Ian (ph) always steals her food because she just has various snack bowls little bowls of snacks laying around in the house.
THERAPIST: Yea. And he snags them.
CLIENT: And I used to take his food. I used to get in trouble all of the time for taking his food so because they don't eat all at once. He eats a little bit. And once he comes back later, it's gone.
THERAPIST: (chuckling)
CLIENT: And I put on weight. But the dog and I put on weight when he was a baby, toddler. (pause) [0:40:00] Jess brought up the set schedule. She did it out of frustration with the kids.
THERAPIST: Oh, like...
CLIENT: Just bothered her.
THERAPIST: ...I've had enough of that (inaudible at 0:40:23).
CLIENT: Where's daddy? Where's daddy? Or getting upset when I leave. Or you know. She was freaked out yesterday because I don't think Jess told her I was coming. So when I showed up, she was a little bit like...
THERAPIST: Lucille (ph) was freaked out, yea.
CLIENT: Yea.
THERAPIST: Yea, I can see I know it's hard for you but I can see how, for them, that the routine could be helpful.
CLIENT: Well, I got a routine Saturday and Sunday mornings.
THERAPIST: So you go over there on Sunday mornings? Usually though...
CLIENT: Well, no. I'm going to be taking Ian (ph) to...
THERAPIST: For the snowboarding, yea.
CLIENT: ...snowboarding. So... [0:41:00]
THERAPIST: Yea. And you sometimes have them Friday night.
CLIENT: Yea.
THERAPIST: Right?
CLIENT: That was it was last Friday that Jess brought it up because I said no to Ian (ph). Just I was just exhausted.
THERAPIST: Do you still see them on Tuesdays? Did you see them on Tuesdays at one time?
CLIENT: Pick them up from school but I haven't been.
THERAPIST: Yea. That's pretty much Saturday and Sunday now? OK.
CLIENT: But in January I'm going to be picking up for Jess is taking some class or something like that. It's so it's four Tuesdays I've got to pick them up. (pause) (sigh)
THERAPIST: Well, we should finish up for now. (inaudible at 0:43:51).
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: And I'll get you the letter probably getting the letter today.
CLIENT: Do you know kind of when?