TITLE: Client "B", Session April 30, 2014: Client discusses being forced into going to her sister's graduation and feeling angry because her parents never came to her graduation. Client discusses some drama going on in her personal life between friends.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses being forced into going to her sister's upcoming graduation and feeling angry because her parents never came to her graduation. Client discusses some drama going on in her personal life between friends.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. (pause) (sigh) I don’t know what to start with. I’m going to Missouri next weekend; it’s a terrible decision, but my family’s on my case. My youngest sister is graduating from grad school.
THERAPIST: It’s hard to stomach how awful it can be.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) I don’t want to go on this trip; it’s Mother’s Day weekend; it’s going to be a pain in the ass. [0:04:40] (sneeze)
THERAPIST: Bless you. (pause)
CLIENT: Like I have a group of friends here who all have conflicted feelings about Mother’s Day, and so we celebrate Motherless Children’s Day.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I’ve been doing that for a couple of years, and I’m going to miss it this year because of this stupid graduation trip, and it’s – I don’t know. Dave is going with me at least, because the last time me going by myself was catastrophically bad. (pause) [0:05:22]-[0:06:22] (pause)
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it’s just (sigh) and then my mom will often think she knows what my dad wants better than he does, then she’ll go and talk to people behind his back, and be like “All he wants blah, blah, blah.” Sometimes she’s right, but a lot of the time, she’s wrong, ","P1-N4002E1":"then like – so I don’t know. Maybe they did want to come to my graduation; maybe they did think I told them not to come. And then I’ll feel like an asshole. (pause)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 0:08:01), one is (pause) I don’t know for sure, not having been there, but my strong suspicion is that you are (pause) sort of bending what you are pretty sure has been the case. (pause) In a way that like letting them off the hook, and sort of felt punitive at the same time. (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah, that’s true.
THERAPIST: No one’s getting anywhere near the truth, so what the hell?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess I might (laughter) my hesitation in saying is not a hesitation thinking it’s probably right; I think it probably is right. (pause) It’s more like I’m not quite sure what role that puts me in, or I’ll have to think about that. But that is actually (chuckle) ","P1-N4003A1":"what I think. [0:10:05]
CLIENT: I think that temporarily this relieves my guilt of her not being a good enough daughter. [0:11:11] (pause)
THERAPIST: I don’t – (have anything) (ph) that like comes close (pause) I could be wrong about this; my chances is more on exercise and making yourself feel horrible than anything else. Like (pause)
CLIENT: I feel very much like I owe them something; I’m not sure what, but (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess part of what I’m saying is that it seems plausible to me, although I’m not sure about it, that you (pause) that it’s hard to stomach how awful they can be, and awful they can treat you, and that you sort of in a way, prop them up, feeling like you owe them something, ","P1-N400461":"or maybe they’re actually right, or more honest, or straight forward and you’re just screwed up in your head, in some way that you don’t really see or something like that. [0:13:07]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [0:14:07] (pause) In other news, my friend Katie e-mailed me this morning in a complete panic, because Brian’s going to be at [the conference] (ph) this weekend. So Brian’s the former friend, the one whose girlfriend (kissed and was raping) (ph) her a few winters ago.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I remember; in Canada maybe?
CLIENT: Yeah. [] is this big three-day long festival.
THERAPIST: [The conference] (ph) the Harvard thing?
CLIENT: Yeah. So a lot of people are coming in from out of town; I’m going for the first time since like 2006, just because [the conference] was never my thing; I never really enjoyed it even when I was a student.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So once I graduated, there’s no reason to go. But this year there’s enough people who I haven’t seen, and who live far enough away, that I’m going and will get to see them. So Katie’s in a complete panic about Brian coming to [the conference)].
THERAPIST: Katie’s (been the one you’re with?) (ph)
CLIENT: No, Katie is – Katie is Katie; Katie and I have known each other since we were freshmen. Katie is best friends with Lori, who is one of my close friends.
THERAPIST: Yeah, Lori is Lo’s?
CLIENT: Yes. And Katie and I have never gotten along; it’s always been the oil and water with us.
THERAPIST: Okay. (inaudible at 0:15:33).
CLIENT: But for Lo’s sake, we have been making an effort to like be civil to each other, and also as we’ve gotten older, we’ve both mellowed out a little bit. It’s not been nearly as oil and water; it’s more like mold and – but (chuckle) and Katie has started participating ","P1-N400601":"in like science fiction fandom and places where I’ve participated in.
THERAPIST: Katie’s close with Stacey.
CLIENT: Yeah. (sigh) But Stacey didn’t really have any friends of her own, so Katie was the only person she could think of to call, and wouldn’t immediately take Brian’s side. [0:16:29]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So, Katie also used to date Ashley; Katie also used to date another one of my ex’s. It’s a social circle that was incestuous. But anyway, so Katie is super upset, and sent an all caps like e-mail full of feelings. And I looked at it, and I was just like, you know, if this had happened ","P1-N4006A1":"last year; if I ever planned on going to – if I had gone to (Vanessa) (ph) last year, I would have been very upset.
THERAPIST: Like obviously maybe she’s feeling a little horrified? (pause) [0:19:00] (pause) Okay, I guess you’re kind of shut down from all the other stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Here I am, especially in [how you deal with your family] (ph) – it’s just brutal.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And the chances are, it’s like, it’s (harder) (ph) to get out, and you’re already feeling pretty completely beat up.
CLIENT: Yeah. I keep telling myself, it’s only 36 hours, but I don’t know. Last time it was less than that; last time it wasn’t even a full 24 hours, and I was a wreck for weeks afterwards. I have so much work to do on the book, and with the church school, and commitments I’ve made. [0:20:26]
THERAPIST: (And I imagine,) (ph) you probably have more control over how they’re making you miserable if you didn’t go.
CLIENT: That’s true.
THERAPIST: You know, (inaudible at 0:22:00). And, you know, pretty e-mails if you want to; and you don’t have to read all of them. (pause)
CLIENT: I’m still angry about (pause) (sigh) when my grandmother died, before I was in grad school, and I went down for the funeral. And at the time, I had this part-time gig doing game reviews for extra money to supplement my grad student stipend.
THERAPIST: I think you mentioned it to me.
CLIENT: Yeah, so you know, I went to her funeral, and my grandmother and I were never close; I wasn’t even going to go to the funeral, except that I knew the rest of the family would be dicks to my mother, and she needed someone there she could count on. [0:23:18]
THERAPIST: [How would this be cleared?] (ph) like “He was being crazy.”
CLIENT: Yes. And correct, which is the part I’ve been focused on.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Right. But I think both are true, I mean (inaudible at 0:25:05) crazy. You’re in grad school for engineering. By the way, it’s like, I’m just not clicking to make money. You came down to the funeral, which you didn’t have to do.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And (pause)
CLIENT: But not that my dad cared about the funeral; that was – he also told my mother, “Oh don’t cry, you know, your mother always was mean to you on the phone, and made you miserable and now you never have to talk to her again.” Which (sigh), while true, my grandmother was ","P1-N4009E1":"horrible person, and she was abusive to my mother, and every time they talked on the phone, my mom would get off the phone and cry for hours.
THERAPIST: So, like pretty (crazed) (ph) and unmarkable, (pause) that he’s treating that way, and has very little to do with anything you might do to (inaudible at 0:28:14).
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: To make things better. (pause) A lot of times, that’s not the case, but it seems to be with him.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) (sigh) [0:29:14] (pause) My neck and shoulders are tense; I wonder why? (pause) [0:30:23]-[0:31:23] (pause) (sigh)
THERAPIST: I guess it’s very stressful to think about.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [0:32:23]-[0:33:23] (pause)
THERAPIST: And it’s funny too that in the sort of – I mean even then in a short term, in a way that they’ve been saying are making you feel more stressed actually.
CLIENT: (chuckle) I don’t know if it’s possible to make me feel more stressed. (laughter) So what do you mean?
THERAPIST: Well, (pause) hard to think about how cruel and how crazy he can be, and be here like – [0:34:21]
CLIENT: Live in his distorted fantasy world, where he can do no wrong?
THERAPIST: Well, or maybe to be kind of – yeah to stomach that, I mean, in certain ways I guess; when you’re his oldest daughter. (pause)
CLIENT: I guess in some way, it’s his fault, but I can now see that the emperor has no (clues) (ph), because he’s one who pushed me my whole life to get my education, and develop critical thinking skills, and learn to think for myself, and for all the wrong reasons of course, because he ","P1-N400BA1":"wanted me to be able to make lots of money when I grew up.
THERAPIST: Actually, can we stop now?