TITLE: Client "B", Session April 24, 2014: Client discusses a major issue of abuse and internet trolling that is occurring in her career field. Client discusses the anger and frustration she feels towards her friend who is naming herself as the expert on sexual violence and how best to handle abusive relationships.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses a major issue of abuse and internet trolling that is occurring in her career field. Client discusses the anger and frustration she feels towards her friend who is naming herself as the expert on sexual violence and how best to handle abusive relationships.
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: You’re on time for once.
THERAPIST: What?
CLIENT: You’re on time for once; I’m very excited about that.
THERAPIST: That’s good. I’m sorry I was late.
CLIENT: That’s okay. Logistically, it wouldn’t have been a problem. (chuckle) (pause) (sigh) I kind of would talk about the awards, but like it would require a great deal of back-story to set-off why it’s been so upsetting. And I don’t know that I really want to recap since the ","P1-N400181":"last two years in politics in the field.
THERAPIST: Yeah; this sun (inaudible at 0:01:01).
CLIENT: Yeah, I understand. (pause) I’d rather you not be distracted for the next hour squinting at the sun. (pause) So where to start. (sigh) I’m going attempt to narrate this chronologically and linearly, but I can’t promise that will work.
THERAPIST: He what?
CLIENT: [Just had white jute] (ph).
THERAPIST: Had some sexual (intent) (ph)?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:01:55).
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: So, obviously I (inaudible at 0:02:03). (pause)
THERAPIST: What is – all right, I don’t want to know.
CLIENT: It (sigh).
THERAPIST: It’s okay, yeah I (inaudible at 0:02:14). (laughter)
CLIENT: No, I mean, it’s important that like you know what the words I use mean too. So you know transgender -
THERAPIST: You know, and actually, I know what you mean when you say cis as opposed to trans, I just – you know, trans stands for transgender, and I wondered what cis stood for. That’s all.
CLIENT: Just gender.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Because in chemistry, cis is the opposite of trans, and so it was coined in order for cis to not be the unmarked default state, so you could actually mark it, as opposed to having innocent to people. Anyway, so it’s just called the white (inaudible at 0:02:52).
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: I mean this section isn’t bad, but like it’s about dudes doing dudely things in dudely settings. And I’m like, whatever. But he has positioned himself as an ally to women and people of color, especially women and people of color writers. And he does have a widely read blog, ","P1-N400401":"and he does invited women and people of color to guest post on his blog; he gives exposure to people. But he also profits and benefits from it.
THERAPIST: [] (inaudible at 0:04:14)?
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, he’s not quite not arrogant, but I can see where you might have gotten than from. (chuckle) Anyway, he – it doesn’t make sense that he mixes Latin and English that way, does it? Maybe he did intend it to be a [homophoned voice of God] (ph). I – whatever.
THERAPIST: Whatever.
CLIENT: He is an overt racist and misogynist. And then he’s actually made a blog post in which he says that, you know, rape should be allowed, because he’s just pursuing his right to pursue happiness.
THERAPIST: Oh God.
CLIENT: Yes. He has explicitly said that black people are not the same race as white people, and deserve to be put down like dogs.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: Like I’m not even paraphrasing; these are like quotes from his – he’s terrible, and so he has let him – [overlapping conversation at 0:05:16]
THERAPIST: about having some problems. I mean and not just somebody with, you know, some kind of differing and unpleasant viewpoint.
CLIENT: Yeah. He calls himself a Christian libertarian, which anyway – (sigh) So there’s a big ta-do last summer when an up and coming black woman author; her books have been nominated for awards. As far as I know, they’ve never won, but they always get short listed. She’s very ","P1-N4005A1":"popular; she sells very well; she’s a sweet person, like when you meet her. But she gave like this (boner) (ph) speech at some (con) somewhere, where she talked about how like as a community, we need to make it clear the racism fundimists aren’t welcome.
THERAPIST: Oh gee.
CLIENT: And then he posted this to the – a professional association for science fiction writers; anyone who’s a member of the association can promote their blog posts on the official rss feed and (inaudible at 0:06:39). So there’s a process where you register an rss feed of your blog ","P1-N400601":"with the promotion tool, and then if you tag your blog posts, it will automatically appear of the blog.
THERAPIST: And this an award; I thought it was an award for science fiction writing? It is, okay. Has he written stuff?
CLIENT: Yes. But they have written science fiction – I hesitate to call them books, because they are (sigh), they have spewed forth the words that are science fiction, that are bound in book form; I hesitate to call them novel, because they don’t have anything resembling characterization of or plots.
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: (chuckle) So they got themselves and their friends on the ballot, and again, not against the rules, but tacky as hell, especially if go read their book, they say they’re doing this explicitly to offend women and people of color in the field, and the pinko common liberals, and blah, blah, ","P1-N4006E1":"blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. [0:09:00]
THERAPIST: Right, he could have done it a bit quicker.
CLIENT: Yeah, then he went on about how last year, he organized his fans to nominate his book for the award, and that’s totally legit, and blah, blah, blah. And it’s just (sigh) (pause) it’s insulting to the people who are annoyed about the ballot, to say – to imply that we ","P1-N400781":"don’t understand how the rules work and all.
THERAPIST: What was the second name?
CLIENT: Kiki.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And was like, “Hey fans, some people disagree with me; you should go read their blog posts.” Now all of my friends’ blogs are being overrun by his fans who are trolls, and telling them that they are wrong in how there they criticized him, and don’t they know that he’s ","P1-N4008C1":"the best ally they’ve ever had, and blah, blah, blah. It’s just – (sigh) it’s wearisome. [0:14:10]
THERAPIST: The deceased coworker?
CLIENT: Yeah. Apparently, he had pulmonary hypertension, which is a condition for which Viagra was originally developed to treat.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So, Josh told me all about how, you know, Neal had to deal with outraging boners at work that wouldn’t go away, because of his hypertension. I don’t know – I don’t know why he thought I needed to know that. [0:16:21] (pause)
THERAPIST: Well that’s like men who either are throwing it in your face -
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) Because of course all the really gross stories were written by men; that kind of goes without saying. (pause) [0:18:00] (pause)
THERAPIST: And in a way, it’s kind of the same thing with this author and the (pause) like I don’t have a (inaudible at 0:18:40), but the way that (pause) a big part of his sort of (pause) I can see the relation in that (inaudible at 0:19:07), the way he kind of professes to be genuinely ","P1-N400A01":"kind of altruistically interested in like promoting the work and (inaudible at 0:19:21) as women and people of color in science fiction, is really quite self-evolved and self-serving.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: And (pause) I guess one thing I’m liking about the boner metaphor here is the way that it sort of like condenses both and kind of like self-involvement; like a masturbatory self-involvement, and the possibility of sexual aggression.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That those things kind of go together in the context that you’re talking about. (pause) Like his self-involvement becomes quite aggressive, and demeaning and (intrusive) (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [0:21:00] (pause) I’m just so angry, and it’s been so draining. (pause) [0:22:00] (pause) And like I realize I can just, you know, close the browser window and walk away, but friends of mine are getting harassing e-mails, and items, and letters in the mail, and I don’t ","P1-N400AA1":"know, I feel like it would make me a coward to just walk away; not think about it. Or at least not respond. (pause) [0:23:00]-[0:24:00] (pause)
THERAPIST: I can see how you are pissed off, and I think in a kind of an impossible situation there. (pause) It’s going to be stressful, and upsetting, and maybe even unbearable either way.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Whether you sort of get into the prey or don’t. (pause) [0:25:00] (pause)
CLIENT: Well the other thing that’s been going on the last couple of weeks, is I’m still doing the local story with Cricket, and Lucas, and her bullshit claims that he was emotionally abusing her, and then her claims that I abused her and how in a poetry book. I’m like that’s ","P1-N400B21":"all I know in all of that.
THERAPIST: Now was Lucas the one who lives in Illinois, and has the daughter who has health problems?
CLIENT: Yeah. So, (sigh) (pause) the way Cricket has positioned herself as like the expert on sexual assaults in our community; and she actually is a state certified rape and crisis counselor. She’s positioned herself as the expert, like this is how dealing with domestic violence and emotional ","P1-N400B61":"violence should be handled. [0:26:26]
THERAPIST: Are they together?
CLIENT: Yes. Their relationship has been very difficult, and they’ve had a lot of work to do, and they are seeing a couples counselor there, but individually getting therapy. They are trying to do their best by each other, but it’s hard. [0:27:37]
THERAPIST: Sure. That’s clearly all Cricket’s triggers in the example.
CLIENT: Yeah, but this has Vanessa very upset. Danielle -
THERAPIST: Sure; confusing enough without hearing that I’m sure.
CLIENT: So my friend Danielle was in a relationship with a violent alcoholic eight years ago, and she has not fully dealt with that. As far as I know, she has never sought therapy for it, and so she’s dating someone new, who’s very important to her. They recently moved in together, and her ","P1-N400C61":"girlfriend drinks. As far as I know, is not an alcoholic, but does get drunk occasionally. And when Eleanor gets drunk, Danielle has panic attacks. [0:28:43]
THERAPIST: Sure, and you have good reasons and you are suspicious of Cricket.
CLIENT: Yeah. So there’s been – I’ve had a lot of conversations with friends of mine, and they’re all like abuse, and trauma histories, and it’s been a lot to cope with. Anyway, people are talking about Cricket and how we think she’s full of shit.
THERAPIST: Withdraw their offer.
CLIENT: Yeah, withdraw their offer, to let her guess that it’s an issue. So yesterday she went on Twitter, and accused Lucas of raping her. And I know you should always (inaudible at 0:30:59) the victim; I know that culture says that (sigh) it’s easy to believe men aren’t rapists, ","P1-N400D81":"when they really are.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: But yeah. (pause) She’s lied about so many things; she’s lied about me. (pause) I went back and I looked at her response to – she e-mailed her response when I asked her out last winter. So all this time, I had been remembering it as, she said maybe, maybe not, ask me later.
THERAPIST: I remember, yeah. [0:32:10]
CLIENT: But when I looked at the actual e-mail, and sent it to a trusted friend of mine, and said “Am I crazy? Was this an outright no? Like should I have just dropped it immediately?” Kiki’s response was like, “No, that actually sounds like a yes to me. If I had received that ","P1-N400E21":"e-mail, I would have assumed that she wanted to date me, and would have pursued actually meeting up in person to talk about it like very aggressively.”
THERAPIST: Well, (pause) all right, let me be clear about this. So, I think in telling Cricket in both of the incidents that you have, (pause) the one with the author?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And then with Cricket. I think there are things about coping it all; like about what’s going on that feel to you, or that kind of (inaudible at 0:35:59) sort of abusive; you’re not saying they’re abusing you, and I’m not talking about like in some sense what’s ","P1-N400EC1":"going on in like external reality.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (pause) Like the kind of external situations that you’re describing. (pause) [0:37:59] (pause) And I suppose, as I think more about it, (pause) rather they feel abusive in somewhat different ways; one is the more sort of stereotypically male boner in your face, self-involved and aggressive ","P1-N400F41":"at the same time, sort of. Then the other is, more the (pause) I guess in a way, you could say like, again I wouldn’t say abusing female, I would just say more like a stereotypically borderline; not you, but the other person; kind of (pause) gas lighting, crazy-making, aghhh; sort of play the ","P1-N400F42":"victim in this really aggressive way; sort of perform.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:39:22] (pause) It’s been really frustrating and upsetting. (sigh) (pause) [0:40:22] (pause) (sigh) [0:41:22]-[0:42:22] (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, yeah it sounds like (pause) you’ve been like pretty absorbed or immersed in feeling this way. (pause) Well and a lot to this, you’ve been in (inaudible at 0:43:36) and that made you feel like that too.