TITLE: Client "B", Session April 09, 2014: Client discusses all the drama that is going on in her friend's life and how she wants to get involved, but doesn't want to alienate anyone.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses all the drama that is going on in her friend's life and how she wants to get involved, but doesn't want to alienate anyone.
CLIENT: (yawning) Hi.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: I don’t know why I can’t get [off to anywhere on time,] (ph) and it’s not just here; this is not uniquely bad for me in terms of tardiness. (pause) You’re not special. (laughter) (pause) It’s really frustrating, because I end up being, you know, on average 15 minutes ","P1-N400101":"late to everything, even like lunches with friends who I’m excited about seeing.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you know, I mean, and I can imagine [it can hurt me some] (ph), to do with not having a very productive – and have forgotten what you wanted our the thing you’re leaving for; be anxious, you know, something about being friends; about how it’s going to go, or whether ","P1-N400161":"they want to see you, or something like that. Or I can imagine that it’s a way of kind of preemptively kind of punishing or embarrassing yourself, when you’re already going to feel bad and guilty. (pause) (inaudible at 0:03:05). (pause) [0:04:05] (pause)
CLIENT: The only thing on my mind right now is there’s a new installment in the soap opera with Cricket. I can’t remember if I mentioned this to you last week or not, but I completely lost track of what has happened when. But my friend Vanessa is very worried about her friend Tom, who lives ","P1-N400181":"abroad and has fallen in love with Cricket, and his primary relationship is kind of falling apart.
THERAPIST: And so why didn’t Vanessa want to say anything to him?
CLIENT: Because Vanessa has terrible social anxiety, and she’s afraid if she does, then Tom will stop being her friend.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: (inaudible at 0:07:14) I don’t know, I want to say it’s broken. It’s probably not (caring) or it’s not kind, but – (pause) I wonder if maybe I would be doing better mental health wise, if you know, I had friends who weren’t all so depressed, and anxious, and ","P1-N4002A1":"sad all the time.
THERAPIST: Well (continue) (ph) between that and your what you’re saying about (inaudible at 0:10:44). (pause) The impression that it’s like everywhere you look, things are all fucked up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or there are reminders of how things are all fucked up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Time and people. (pause) I think that maybe partly, it makes you want to crawl under the bed.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or like hide from it.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [0:12:40] (pause)
THERAPIST: [Someone else is coming by.] (ph) (pause)
CLIENT: I’m angry at Cricket for obvious reasons; I’m also angry at myself for falling for her bullshit for so long. (pause) [0:13:40] (pause) I really should stop looking at her Facebook and her life journal. (pause) Every time I do, it just makes me upset and angry again.
THERAPIST: True.
CLIENT: To be fully recovered at such a thing, even real in such a short span of time. Especially be like dismantling you PTSD trigger in a day. [0:16:31] (pause)
THERAPIST: Sketchy?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [0:17:15] (pause) And also, I question my motives, like I don’t – I’m not confident that all of my anger is because she’s behaved badly, and hurt people, including me, and how much of it is just sour grapes that she didn’t want to date me. I don’t ","P1-N400501":"think it’s that, but (pause) Then there’s the shadow of a doubt.
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah, it seems like kind of in your mind you’re (pause) (inaudible at 0:18:04) to her and being critical of her, but also like anxious about it and so got angry at?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: [Your inside anger.] (ph) (pause)
CLIENT: And she keeps posting things on Twitter, trying to bate me, and Lucas, and Emma and Vanessa into a public confrontation; like she’s really itching for a big ugly public confrontation. So far, none of us have risen to the bate, but (pause) I know there’s no winning if anyone does. ","P1-N400581":"It’s hard to sit on my hands and not respond. Especially since she’s trying to poison the well with mutual friends. [0:19:08]
THERAPIST: Isn’t this like part of what (Cricket) (ph) did? Having both protect yourself, and feel like you are taking the high road at the same time? (pause)
CLIENT: No, because I think I can do that. I think it’s not to cue into the temptation that -
THERAPIST: I see, just mixing it up with her?
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) [0:22:28] (pause) I mean as much as she’s going for a public confrontation, there’s also a part of me that wants a public confrontation too, even though the rational part of my brain knows that that would be bad and would end badly for me.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And for her, but, you know, that doesn’t matter if you want to wrestle with the pig. Both get dirty and the pig enjoys it. (pause) [0:23:28]-[0:24:28] (pause)
THERAPIST: But I guess your hope, unrealistic, though you think it is, would be that in the like public (pause) scoreboard between you, people would end up seeing what she’s really like.
CLIENT: Yeah. [0:24:59]
THERAPIST: And to make good what you’re really like in this.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And what kind of [noticed and where[ (ph). (pause) Then in the (pause) thought of people seeing you in that kind of a positive way. Also seeing her for how she really is.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: A (inaudible at 0:26:01) appealing. (pause) Maybe you want to think that was part of a situation also kind of goes beyond that. (pause)
CLIENT: So that not how it would actually play out; how it would actually play out as she has enormous charisma, and social gravity and all of her friends who don’t me would dog pile on me and like spew (inaudible at 0:26:36) all over the Internet, and we won’t actually read what happened; ","P1-N4007E1":"it would depolarize the entire whirlwind. (sigh) (pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah, and I’m not saying that with the idea that anything good would come from it. (inaudible at 0:27:03).
CLIENT: Right. Yeah, it sounded like you were describing the fantasy.
THERAPIST: Okay, yeah.
CLIENT: It’s a really compelling fantasy.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause) [0:28:03] (pause) As some people would say that you had [departmental backup] (ph) dealing with people like this before.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: We should stop.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Oh, I’m sorry, I forgot to mention this earlier. I’ll be out two weeks from today, just the one day.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: So (inaudible at 0:28:54).
CLIENT: Okay.