TITLE: Client "B", Session March 13, 2014: Client discusses challenges with work trainings and printings.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses challenges with work trainings and printings.
CLIENT: Maybe it was supposed to snow in Vermont, but on the radar it looked like it was going to go north of us; I guess not. I’m so sick of winter. (sighs) Good morning. There is a long, long stupid story about the print shop. I don’t know that it’s necessarily or important, but ","P1-N4000D1":"I haven’t been thinking about anything except the print shop for the last many days. This book I’m trying to print, I don’t have paper for it yet, which is deeply irritating and distressing. [00:01:01] I thought I would have a lot of time in the shop Saturday, but it turns out I didn’t. ","P1-N4000D2":"I was in the shop Saturday. I had plans with a guy named William. He’s a member of my fraternity. He’s also a writer and is interested in helping produce the book. I made plans to meet him in the shop so I could give him an overview of the project, tell him what’s going on, figure ","P1-N4000D3":"out how we’re going to coordinate who does what because, unlike many of the other people who have volunteered to help with the manual labor, William is the fully-qualified press operator so I don’t need to supervise him. We got there and there was another guy, George, there. George is a ","P1-N4000D4":"newly-initiated brother. He’s an undergrad; William and I are both alums. George had made plans with Jordan and Justin to get trained to use the press. None of us had e-mailed the print shop. Jordan was to actually reserve the press; undergrads get priority. [00:01:58] So Jordan and Justin showed ","P1-N4000D5":"up and they trained George to use the press.
THERAPIST: Is that (inaudible at 00:02:06)?
CLIENT: No. There is someone there; they’re just not visible. George didn’t have a text in mind to print, so I sent a text message to Lucy saying, “You know how you’ve asked before if I could do a broadside of one of your poems? Do you have one in mind? We have a trainee here.” ","P1-N400111":"So she sent me a link to a poem that was four times as long as her usual. It was epically – there was no way the trainee was going to be able to do it at all; but I didn’t want to tell her that, so I didn’t. The trainee found something else to print. I think he printed business cards ","P1-N400112":"for Justin or something. Meanwhile, while the trainee was being trained, William and I worked on setting type, since we didn’t have paper and we couldn’t print anyway. We were able to set type. [00:03:04] We set like 2½ pages over the course of Saturday and Sunday between the two of ","P1-N400113":"us. The setting of the type went a lot slower than I remember it going on previous projects. I don’t know if it’s just that I’m out of practice or it was challenging with multiple people in the shop to move at peak efficiency. I don’t know what was going on. Anyway, there was ","P1-N400114":"that. I went back on Sunday and worked in the print shop, then I stared at Lucy’s poem for several hours at work on Monday trying to figure out how to make it fit on a single sheet of paper because it wouldn’t fit in just one column long ways, but breaking it into three columns and doing ","P1-N400115":"it in landscape instead of portrait, it did work – at least in my digital mock-up. I went to the print shop last night after work and work was just distressing for a lot of reasons. [00:04:04] Then there were distressing conversations on Twitter and – I don’t know – I was just ","P1-N400116":"in a bad mood, in general, when I got to the shop. I got to the shop later than I wanted to. I got there at 9:00 and I had intended to get there at 7:30. I started setting type and I realized I don’t have enough Garamonds to set Lucy’s poem. I wanted to do her poem in Garamond, I would have ","P1-N400117":"to do it in three blocks, like set a third of the poem, print a third of the poem, put the type away, lather, rinse, repeat. I really didn’t want to do that because it would just massively increase the amount of time everything takes. So I went digging through the shop and the only font we have ","P1-N400118":"in 10-point, or we have enough of, is Century Schoolbook, which is wider than Garamond. I got about 1\/3 of the way through setting it when I realized that my layout wasn’t going to work. I didn’t have my laptop with me, so I couldn’t do another digital mock-up. [00:05:01] It was all ","P1-N400119":"very dumb. So I put away the Century Schoolbook. I didn’t put away the type I had set in case I could use it, but I did stop working on it and put it on a shelf, put the tray away, and then decided to go through the shelves and put away some old type from old projects that people never put away ","P1-N4001110":"when they were done. Now I’m deeply irritated at the entire universe because there are a number of forms that say, “Will be run again next year. Do not distribute. 1997” (chuckles)
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: It’s so lazy and it’s so inconsiderate and there is a whole box of type where, instead of putting their type in the cases where it belongs, people just took their type off the trays where it was set up and you could actually read the words and dumped it into a box. [00:05:58] So ","P1-N400151":"now that big box has like a billion different fonts. It’s going to take forever to key out which ones are which. And the type isn’t lined up in words, which makes it much harder. You have to examine each individual piece of type and figure out which letter it is, whereas if you have a whole ","P1-N400152":"word . . .
THERAPIST: In other words, you can do a word at a time.
CLIENT: Yeah, it’s much faster if you read a word; the same number of letters takes much longer to distribute if they aren’t in word order.
THERAPIST: Sure. I see.
CLIENT: If you have something like “invited” as you’re putting the letters away in order, you know what’s coming next; whereas if they’re in a jumble you have to examine each one.
THERAPIST: And you also presume that they’re the same font and size.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. (sighs) So it was deeply irritating. I put away three letter forms. A form is when you take letters and put them together, that assembly of a thing you’re going to print is called a form. So I put away three forms and then I went home. [00:07:09] Then I realized that no one had ","P1-N400211":"adjusted the clock in the print shop for Daylight’s Savings Time, so I got home at 1:00 instead of midnight. I want to have my own shop that I don’t have to share with other people. (pause) I want to believe in Unitarian sharing of resources, worker-owned collectives, et cetera, et cetera, ","P1-N400212":"but some people are selfish and some people just don’t do things the way I think is the right way to do them. (both laugh) [00:08:00] I’m personally offended by bad behavior on the part of other print operators. Sometimes I’ll be tired after a job and won’t put away my type immediately, ","P1-N400213":"but I always come back. Sometimes it takes a month or two, but I always come back and put away my type. I don’t leave it for – Jesus, 1996. That’s almost 20 years. That’s older than some freshmen. (sniggers) (pause) I especially think “The job will be run again next year. ","P1-N400214":"Do not distribute” Is extra anti-social, because half the time no one comes back to rerun the job. For example, the fraternity does a semi-formal\/formal banquet every spring. Sometimes we’ll do e-mail invitations and sometimes they’ll just get them printed in the university copy shop. ","P1-N400215":"[00:09:02] But sometimes they’ll print them in the print shop and the people inevitably leave the form and say, “Can be used for semi-formal form next year.” Well the next year, there’s no guarantee that the people planning the semi-formal are going to have their act together ","P1-N400216":"in time to get a print shop invitation. Even if they do, they’re probably going to want a different layout and different fonts. It’s just so awful. Then no one feels authorized to put the type away, so now you’re taking up space in the rack of galley trays that could be used by someone ","P1-N400217":"else for an active work in progress – and you’ve got the type locked up in a form instead of in the trays where people can use it. And it’s just . . . (sighs) Part of the reason I can’t set any more pages for my book is because there is no room to leave work in progress type. ","P1-N400218":"All the shelves are full.
THERAPIST: I see. Congested with stuff. [00:10:00]
CLIENT: With old shit. Yeah. Yeah. I’m really cranky about that. (long pause) [00:11:18] I had hoped to get Lucy’s broadside done by this weekend, but because I’ll have paper for the book by this weekend, hopefully – but also because I’m probably going to see her at the ","P1-N400251":"Ides of March event at the square and it would have been cool to do it. Lucy, I have a broadside for you. I did spend some time after I got home last night working on the layout digitally and I think I can make it work, even with the wider font. The plan was to get all of the text set last night and ","P1-N400252":"then go in tonight to actually do the printing. I don’t have all the text set. [00:12:01] (sighs) Once the paper gets in for the book, that has to be first priority. (pause) I did finally manage to e-mail my lawyer about the contracts about three weeks ago and he hasn’t responded yet. I’m ","P1-N400253":"trying not to freak out about it. I’m sure he is very busy and has lots of clients and probably the ones that are paying him more and giving him more work are higher priority for him, but I’m trying not to freak out about the fact that he hasn’t responded yet.
THERAPIST: You’re getting squeezed everywhere.
CLIENT: (sniggers) Yeah. [00:13:04] (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess it’s a little more accurate to say that people are squeezing you everywhere. (pause) [00:13:58] Although you seem to be feeling a little freer vent about it. (both laugh)
CLIENT: I’m taking you at your word when you said that nothing is off topic. (pause)
THERAPIST: No, I meant it. I think the ways you’re being squeezed are – even if I didn’t think that, it would still be true. I just happen to also think that the ways you’re kind of getting squeezed a little bit are pretty similar and I think you seem freer talking about it than ","P1-N4002F1":"you often do. [00:15:06]
CLIENT: Also I’ve been kicking myself over losing an earring. The last time I remember wearing this pair of earrings was when I was visiting Lo in Montana. I thought I put them in the bag with all the other earrings that I took with me, but I guess I didn’t. One of them turned up stuck to ","P1-N400311":"a towel in the laundry last week. It hadn’t even occurred to me that they weren’t just in the bag I hadn’t unpacked yet. Then I kind of went to look through the bags I took with me in Montana and dug through them and put them away properly. Everything I brought with me was there except ","P1-N400312":"for this particular pair and one was stuck to this towel. I have no idea where the other one is and, of course, it can’t just be “oh, darn; I lost an earring,” it’s “and I’ll never be able to find it because the house is messy and the house is messy because I haven’t ","P1-N400313":"dealt with . . .” [00:16:03]
THERAPIST: It does seem to me like it’s a problem that if you’re upset about something, there is no room for that unless somebody else is upset about or needs it or is left in the way; or for something else that you have as well that you’re, in a way, almost as if another person, you’re ","P1-N400351":"so upset about the state of the house that you can’t just be upset about the earring without that sort of beginning the avalanche or triggering the avalanche of all that stuff. And you just bury it. [00:20:02] I don’t know. Maybe the moral of the thing today is that you seem to be talking ","P1-N400352":"to me more easily to me about how that is upsetting you or the way that you’re stuck like that – which I guess, if I think about it, seems related to your comment that “I decided, Brian, to sort of take you at your word, that ‘whatever’ is fair game.” [00:21:01] My ","P1-N400353":"point there is this: the alternative is to assume that I didn’t really need it. My point is it’s almost like you were distrustful of me, it’s more like I don’t have the [rapport.] (ph?) I’m going to get bored or oh, my God, this is so trivial or something like that. My ","P1-N400354":"point there is that I (inaudible at 00:21:27). Does that make sense? You were like “Oh, Brian, you kind of said you did, so here we go.”
CLIENT: I should have just texted Lucy back as soon as I looked at her poem on Saturday and said, “This is way too long. Give me one sonnet length, as opposed to this 80-line epic about Allen Turin and Christopher Macom.” (pause) [00:22:08] It’s a lovely poem, but it won’t fit ","P1-N400371":"on an 8 ½” x 11” sheet.
THERAPIST: Who is Christopher Macom?
CLIENT: Christopher Macom is a school-time friend of Allen Turin. There are hints in their diaries that they were lovers and he died of bovine tuberculosis when they were both very young and drinking tainted, not knowing that milk could actually kill you. Biographers have kind of blamed Christopher’s ","P1-N4003B1":"death for Turin becoming atheist. (long pause) [00:23:18]
THERAPIST: One or both of us seems to be wrapped up in this theme today, but there wasn’t enough room for her poem, either. I guess I’m wondering . . .
CLIENT: I should have remembered that we don’t have enough of Garamond, even though it’s our house font.
THERAPIST: I can imagine that you probably did not want her to feel the way that you are so often feeling, like somebody saying “No, there is not enough room for that. Give me something shorter. I don’t want to handle all of that.” You knew that’s not why you would be saying ","P1-N400411":"it, but I imagine you didn’t want her to feel that way because of . . . [00:24:03]
CLIENT: Right. (pause) I kind of lied by omission when I told her that the trainee wasn’t able to pull prints with her poem and I would be giving it a go myself at some later date. I didn’t tell her that Jordan and I looked at her poem and said there is no way George is going to be able ","P1-N400431":"to do this. It’s true that he wasn’t able to pull prints.
THERAPIST: But that’s not the whole story. Why don’t we stop for now?