TITLE: Client "B", Session March 06, 2014: Client discusses the disappointment and negative feelings surrounding their own birthday celebrations.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses the disappointment and negative feelings surrounding their own birthday celebrations.
CLIENT: . . . five six in a row at the big intersection, right where the commons are. People were just ignoring traffic lights and it was backed up and gridlocked for about 15 minutes just to get from that and turn to the next street. A (inaudible at 00:00:25) was going the wrong way down the street. ","P1-N4000B1":"He had diplomatic plates, too. I don’t even know. That’s dangerous; diplomatic plates; I know.
THERAPIST: I had forgotten to mention yesterday, but wanted to remember to mention today, I moved over billing stuff over the weekend, which I usually do at the beginning of the month. But I also hadn’t looked over stuff for you in a while, so I wanted to see where we were at. [00:01:00] I guess ","P1-N4000D1":"there are really two things. One is it looks like your insurance did go down to just paying for once a week starting towards the end of November. I also did a quick run-through because on one side of it there is that, and there is your deductible, and on the other side there is the fact that you were ","P1-N4000D2":"$5 ahead for most of the visits last year. Then there was a point at which you probably hit an out-of-pocket max and your insurance covered everything; and you’re also doing the recording. Anyway, I looked through it fairly quickly, but we wound up within like $50 of each other or something; so ","P1-N4000D3":"I wasn’t too concerned about that. I should probably look at it a little bit more carefully. Basically, I think we’re pretty close to even. I’ll figure it out at some point, but the other thing was it looks like at the end of sometime in November, they actually did go down to paying ","P1-N4000D4":"for once a week. They had sort of said they would do it over the summer, but never really did enter it until then. I just wanted to let you know. [00:02:03] They should have been sending you these about that, too.
CLIENT: I’m bad at paying attention to those. Thanks for letting me know.
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause) What’s on your mind?
CLIENT: My birthday is Tuesday and I planned a party for Saturday. I e-mailed about it and the first six people to RSVP said they couldn’t come. [00:03:01] I don’t know. It’s kind of tough to argue with “it’s my wedding anniversary and my wife and I are going to Vermont ","P1-N400131":"for the weekend” or “it’s my daughter’s birthday and she’s home for spring break so I’m spending it with her” or “I’m out of town on a trip I booked months ago” or whatever. I am kind of feeling down about it. I don’t know if I’ve ","P1-N400132":"mentioned, but birthdays are kind of rough for me because it’s so rare that I have a good one. My 21st birthday, my housemate and person who I had thought was a friend, deliberately scheduled a surprise party for her boyfriend on the same day that I had planned my 21st birthday party. [00:04:00] ","P1-N400133":"His birthday and my birthday were close, but I’m fairly certain she did it on purpose and then she very explicitly told me I was not welcome to come. And so everyone went to his party instead of mine. There was literally no one at my 21st birthday party. It sucked.
THERAPIST: What else is coming to mind? (pause)
CLIENT: Last night I kind of had a meltdown about birthday stuff after choir rehearsal. Dave lost his temper at me and told me that I had no right to complain that people weren’t coming to my birthday party and that I should grow up and understand that other people have their own commitments and ","P1-N400191":"priorities and stuff going on in their lives. [00:09:04] I feel really guilty because I’m sure Dave thought that once I left Harvard and was no longer in that pressure cooker, that some of the depression and mental health stuff would lift, and it hasn’t. It’s been ten years and things ","P1-N400192":"are still really bad inside my head. He’s sick of dealing with me and my neuroses. I don’t know. I kind of feel like it’s not fair that I’m not better yet. [00:09:51] (long pause) [00:11:20]
THERAPIST: I don’t think it’s neurotic to be upset that the first responses to the invitation you sent out from people who couldn’t come, even if for reasons that, in a way, aren’t personal ones related to you, especially in light of the history you’re telling me about ","P1-N4001B1":"to birthdays. [00:12:15] I don’t think that’s neurotic. (long pause) [00:13:19] You mentioned that you are kind of afraid of feeling or being in touch with how sad you feel about it because, in a way, I think [you might just begin to see it as your fault.] (ph?) (pause) [00:14:14] [Maybe ","P1-N4001B2":"I’d, in a way, come to use the occasion of your being sad as a kind of entrée to be cruel.] (ph?) I don’t think you actually think I would do that, but in probably a general way you are afraid of that. (long pause) [00:15:53]
CLIENT: Then Dave told me that if parties were this upsetting to me, maybe I just shouldn’t have birthday parties anymore, which came across as sounding like I’m not allowed to have parties or I don’t deserve to have parties because I’m too crazy to. I’m pretty sure that’s ","P1-N4001D1":"not what he meant, but . . .
THERAPIST: But that’s how it felt.
CLIENT: Like my punishment for being crazy is that I don’t get parties anymore. (long pause) [00:19:45]
THERAPIST: I guess it’s kind of complicated. I think there are a few key things involved in the way you are being so critical and hateful towards yourself now. I think, in part, you want me to reassure you and I think, in part, it’s so much safer if I’m the one who is sympathetic to ","P1-N400231":"you, as compared to you being sympathetic. (long pause) [00:23:02] You seem to have shut down. (pause)
CLIENT: I’m thinking about how much it’s probable that none of my friends know how big a deal birthdays are to me, (pause) which made me think of my parents and how they kind of trained my sisters and I to never let anyone know what’s important to us, what actually matters, because ","P1-N400251":"that’s when people know where to stick the knife in your back, according to dad. Such an excellent thing to be teaching a nine year old.
THERAPIST: I’m comparing that, in part, to how you say that it’s difficult to talk about it because it is so important (inaudible at 00:24:39) and you feel pretty thin-skinned when it comes to talking about your birthday. (pause) [00:25:11] (inaudible at 00:25:16) (long pause) We should stop.
CLIENT: See you next week.
THERAPIST: Okay.