TITLE: Client "B", Session February 27, 2014: Client discusses feeling envious of others who are well off financially.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses feeling envious of others who are well off financially.
CLIENT: Hi. My performance review got rescheduled for today. (sighs)
THERAPIST: (chuckles) I’m only laughing because it sucks to have to push out the dread.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yesterday I taught my first course on statistics to my co-workers. I had scheduled it for a time – I didn’t check everyone’s schedule.
THERAPIST: Is this the 1:00, as opposed to the 11:00?
CLIENT: Yeah. When I had scheduled it, I tried to track the managers’ schedules, but not any of the employees because there were 75 people’s schedules to track and there’s just never going to be a slot. So I picked what all the managers could make, which conflicted with this guy, Rob. ","P1-N400131":"He’s not in my group; he’s in a sister group [00:01:01] So Pete rescheduled his 1:00, which then caused a cascade of rescheduling, which caused my boss to need to be in a meeting (laughs) when we had my performance review scheduled. So it’s kind of my fault, but not really.
THERAPIST: Yeah, except not really at all. Yeah.
CLIENT: But the class went well. People gave me kind comments afterwards, including my boss.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I actually stayed focus on work and did not browse the Internet until about 3:30, so yay me. It was after 3:30. The day was kind of a wash. Sort of unusual, but I’ll take it. It turns out the thing at 11:00 that I thought was due next week is actually due next week. The agenda that my ","P1-N4001B1":"boss sent out on Tuesday was confusing, so yesterday was not a disaster. [00:02:07]
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: I still feel like work overall is a disaster, though, largely because of focus or lack thereof. (pause) At MIT, the mental health staff was just so overwhelmed. There was not nearly enough staff to deal with all of the student issues. If you went in complaining of lack of focus, they would just ","P1-N4001F1":"give you Adderall and send you on your way. It was ridiculously easy to acquire a prescription, which made it legal, if not necessarily, the most healthy or ethical choice. [00:03:04] But being on stimulants does help me just get work done, not in a way that I think is good for me. I guess if you’re ","P1-N4001F2":"only measuring goodness by what your work output is, then it’s an A++, but . . . (pause)
THERAPIST: What do you mean, then, about it being in a way that’s not good?
CLIENT: (sighs) I have a tendency, once something gets my attention, to hyper-focus on it and become obsessive about it. [00:04:10] Adderall just amplifies that effect for me, so all I have to do is get just enough focus on work to slip into that hyper-focused state of mind, almost a fugue state, and ","P1-N400231":"then I would work straight for six or eight or ten hours without taking breaks or eating or getting water or using the restroom – and that’s really not . . .
THERAPIST: This was at Harvard?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I can see how that would not have felt healthy. (pause) [00:05:09]
CLIENT: I don’t think my issue with getting work done is a generalized problem with attention or ability to focus. I don’t think it is classic ADD, I think it’s other stuff that prevents me from being able to exercise focus. I try and exercise focus on things other than work. (laughs) ","P1-N4002B1":"(long pause) [00:08:20]
THERAPIST: I agree with what you say. I think there are some things that are similar, actually, about you keep hyper-focus. You talk about work, when you’re taking Adderall and, in a way, the similar kind of absorption, I think, that goes along with your feeling shut down at work, it seems like ","P1-N4002D1":"you would have thought to call it [ ] (inaudible at 00:09:09). [00:09:14] But it does seem to me you’re kind of similarly absorbed with a crushing, overwhelming, very immediate sense of almost like how horrible you are. (pause) [00:10:09]
CLIENT: When I get sucked into a game or a time-wasting distraction, it’s exactly the same sort of hyper-focus and ability to disengage. Society rewards you if you do that with work products, right? Whereas it doesn’t do that if you do that with video games, but it’s the same, I think, ","P1-N4002F1":"mechanism. (pause) [00:10:56] Last fall I ordered paper for this book that I was going to print for Penelope and that feel apart. Did I mention this yesterday? I ordered color stock instead of . . . yeah. So I didn’t realize I had ordered the wrong thing until – I was in Montana, actually, ","P1-N4002F2":"because I thought that Penelope’s book is half the size of the book that I’m printing now and I was going to do half the number of copies. [00:11:16] I thought I had enough paper to do some pages, but I need to order paper now so I have enough to finish the book. So I went to look at my ","P1-N4002F3":"invoice to see what I had ordered so I could make sure to get the same color, the same thickness, and I realized I had ordered cover instead of text. I got home late, late Monday night, like 2:00 AM, and didn’t do anything about it and then Tuesday I was so overwhelmed with being unhappy about ","P1-N4002F4":"work that I completely forgot I needed to deal with paper. Yesterday I looked at the paper before I came here, just to confirm that the invoice was what I got and I was like, “I can’t use this paper.” I completely freaked out. I tried to order paper online because [Legion Paper] (ph?) ","P1-N4002F5":"actually has a really fast turn-around time. [00:12:02] If I had gotten my order in yesterday, they would have shipped today and it would have arrived by tomorrow. I would have been fine, but their website was broken. Their shopping cart wouldn’t let me order, which was really frustrating, and ","P1-N4002F6":"I couldn’t bring myself to just pick up the phone and call them. Now I feel really stupid because if I had just called them on my lunch break yesterday, I would have my paper. Now I’m not sure if I order it today and they ship it tomorrow, it might or might not arrive Saturday morning. I ","P1-N4002F7":"might or might not be able to print on Saturday and just – arggh. (pause) [00:13:39]
THERAPIST: I don’t know if it’s quite in this way, but this is reminding me of what you were saying about reminding me of a paper in the psych clinic literature, which I’m mentioning because I think it doesn’t describe how I’m thinking or feeling, but I think you’ll ","P1-N400311":"identify with what they’re talking about. [00:14:12] It’s a paper called A Mind of One’s Own, and in it, the author is writing about an experience that [ ] (inaudible at 00:14:21) and have in which a patient puts a pressure on you, without really realizing to or intending to or interacts ","P1-N400312":"in such a way that doesn’t leave you any room to think and that makes you feel like you’re in, I imagine, some kind of catastrophe or shut down in a way or overwhelmed in a way that you have no room to think. The idea is that there is some way in which the patient can’t bear to think. ","P1-N400313":"[00:15:07] It’s sort of giving over some of that to you, like focus a reflection of their own experience and, as a demonstration of their anxiety, that you will be able to put them in touch with the things that they’re so overwhelmed by that they can’t stop and think about them. What ","P1-N400314":"I want to be clear about is that I’m not saying that you’re doing that to me, but I think you know what that’s like. I do think there are ways you bring things up in here that I don’t think, necessarily, have that effect in me, but pull a little bit for that in a way that I think ","P1-N400315":"is reflective of a kind of shutdown on your part. [00:16:03]
CLIENT: It’s like a vacation from my parents – technically a vacation, but . . .
THERAPIST: That’s probably extremely apt.
CLIENT: It causes you to spend your vacation days without actually getting any rest or relaxation out of it.
THERAPIST: Yes. Yeah. (long pause) [00:20:37] I think a way that this probably plays out between you and me is actually that. I think at times I say things that point towards how you feel or towards what you might think about that may not be wrong, but can be overwhelming. [00:21:17] (long pause) [00:22:37]
CLIENT: (sniggers) Brainstorming ways to use up all that cover stock. I could do broadsides, but then I’d have to deal with selling broadsides and then shipping broadsides. Oh, God.
THERAPIST: What’s a broadside?
CLIENT: Oh, sorry. A broadside is a printed format. [00:23:01] It was used in the 1700s – 1800s for news of interest in the town or announcements or service flyers, but in contemporary usage, it often means a poem or a stand-alone piece of text, generally not more than 500 words or so, along with ","P1-N400411":"some artwork printed in a format suitable for printing and hanging on a wall. I really like broadsides. They’re fun. I have a lot of them at home, but the market for them is teeny tiny and shipping them is a pain in the ass. And I can’t imagine they’ll be easier to ship than a firm ","P1-N400412":"cover stock versus something soft enough that you can roll it into a tube. (sighs) Man.
THERAPIST: How much was the cover stock?
CLIENT: $250.
THERAPIST: So that’s the money you’re talking about?
CLIENT: Yep. I mean I’ve spent more on stupider things before, but that’s about what I spent on that print for Thomas that I bought last fall. [00:24:09] (pause) It’s an amount of money where, had there not been a mistake on my part involved in the process of acquiring it, I wouldn’t ","P1-N400491":"think anything about spending that quantity of money on a [ ] (inaudible at 00:24:31). The fact that I screwed up suddenly makes it feel like oh, my God, that’s a huge amount of money. What is wrong with you?
THERAPIST: Right, like if you had traveled to go see a show, someone that you wanted to see. Then it’s not a big deal.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) But since I now have paper that I don’t really want and cannot easily make use of, and that will cause more work for me – and it’s a reminder that I was inattentive when I placed the order and ordered the wrong thing and didn’t notice for six months. [00:25:09] ","P1-N4004D1":"It’s now grown in perceived magnitude. (sighs) (pause)
THERAPIST: And I think it comes in pretty handy in relation to what we’re talking about. (pause) [00:26:03]It’s really painful and awful, but safer, too, to be beating yourself up; and not for nothing, in your experience. You have told me how that have otherwise often leads to being hurt. ","P1-N4004F1":"(long pause) [00:28:18] Let me back up for a minute. You’re saying that the $250 can just loom quite a lot larger when it’s attached to your fucking up.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: In other words, I guess it can feel like a much more significant amount of money than, curiously, it can feel like when it’s doing you some good. [00:29:08]
CLIENT: Yep. (pause) In part it’s all based on what I compare it to. $250 is what I spent to go see the Suge concert in West Virginia last fall. It was awesome. $250 is also the maximum amount of money I was allowed to spend on clothes in an entire year when I was growing up, so that’s a ","P1-N400551":"year’s wardrobe, right? Comparing it to a weekend trip makes it feel like a lot less important than comparing it to all the clothes I get to wear all year, even though it’s not the budget I have for clothing right now. [00:30:08] That was a big thing when I was growing up. I had a $250 budget ","P1-N400552":"for the entire year and you had better be careful about what clothes you asked mom and dad to buy because . . .
THERAPIST: It comes out of that money.
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) And, of course, when you’re ten, $250 feels like an enormous amount of money. (pause) Although $250 is, on average, a day’s salary after taxes. Actually, I’m not sure; it’s somewhere in that ballpark. (pause) [00:31:08]
THERAPIST: So you mean that’s the example you think of when you’re thinking of how significant $250 can be.
CLIENT: Yes. (pause)
THERAPIST: So that was, according to your parents, all you should spend on clothes in a year.
CLIENT: Yes. (pause) [00:32:04] I feel vaguely uncomfortable being so explicit about numbers and how much money I spend on things and how much money I have and how much I earn, but that might just be like social [ ] (inaudible at 00:32:14) that talking about money is gauche or something.
THERAPIST: But that’s the way that you feel awkward about it? Uncomfortable, like you’re being gauche?
CLIENT: Yes, or perhaps insensitive, since I have no idea what your finances are like and it would be inappropriate for me to know that anyway. (pause)
THERAPIST: I see. [00:32:57] So you might be acting both socially awkward and making me feel bad or ashamed?
CLIENT: Yeah, or resentful or pitying or whatever, depending on what relative positioning, right?
THERAPIST: But something bad any which way.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Just to be clear. (both laugh) As opposed to glad for you [ ] (inaudible at 00:33:33) or compassionate.
CLIENT: Right. I run into this a lot with my friends. When I was at Harvard and immediately post from Harvard, it was reasonable to assume that all of my friends came from the same rough social, socio-economic background as I did. [00:34:03] And certainly once we all got jobs, our parents income didn’t ","P1-N400711":"matter anymore. We were all working the same kinds of jobs with the same kind of pay – high-tech, high-paid, engineering, computer-science jobs. And then I started meeting and hanging out with people who are poets and try to make a living off their poetry or who pay their rent by working at Starbuck’s ","P1-N400712":"as a barista and do historiography in their spare time because that’s their professional interest and you can’t get paid to study the history of historians. Go figure. Corporate America doesn’t reward that. Here is an immediately relevant example. There is a restaurant in Connecticut, ","P1-N400713":"that does a festival of game meats in February, like antelope and elk and venison. I thought this was super cool and my friends thought it was super cool, so I e-mailed a bunch of people and said, “Let’s get a group together and go out to Student Prince and Fort for Game Fest.” [00:35:03] ","P1-N400714":"But their meal prices are – you should expect to spend $30 $40 per person for a meal.
THERAPIST: Sure, antelope can’t be cheap.
CLIENT: Right. I consider that a little bit of a splurge. I wouldn’t do that every week or even every month, but for a special event or a special occasion, like a birthday or an anniversary or whatever, I consider that totally reasonable. But some of the people I invited were like, “That ","P1-N400751":"is completely unaffordable for me. I can’t do that.” Even as a once-in-a-while splurge. Lots of people said that was Lucy; and then I didn’t know how to offer to pay for her because then, not only have I kind of rubbed it in my face that I can just go out to this dinner without thinking ","P1-N400752":"about it, I can afford to pay for two people to go out to this dinner without even blinking. [00:35:58] I don’t know how to do that in a way that isn’t condescending and doesn’t reinforce class oppression and doesn’t make the other person feel bad. In this case, the point was ","P1-N400753":"moot because Lucy’s boyfriend also wanted to go and he has reasonable family wealth that he’s sitting on, so he decided to pay for it. They have an established relationship where he does that. I guess they have sorted that out between them. If he weren’t interested in going, I would ","P1-N400754":"have had to address that question. I don’t know how to navigate that sort of thing gracefully.
THERAPIST: It seems like part of where you’re getting stuck is, I think, you start with the assumption that what you do will make the other person feel bad. [00:37:01]
CLIENT: Well, when what I do has the potential of making the other person feel bad, I’d like to avoid that. (pause) In part, it’s because I feel bad when friends who are wealthier than me just throw around some of the money that I don’t have, friends who don’t just work pet jobs, ","P1-N400791":"but got lucky in the start-up game and sold Google for $10 billion – not that Jeff got all $10 billion. Much of that went to his co-owners and stockholders and then paying them.
THERAPIST: Right. That percentage of $10 billion . . .
CLIENT: Right. Even single digit percentages of that are vast sums of money. [00:38:07] That’s seed money for another company. That’s a level of money I don’t ever expect to have just sitting in my bank account, right? So Jeff does things like “I’m going to rent a yacht ","P1-N4007D1":"for my friends for a week and we’re just going to have a week-long party and get high all week.” Wow. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Personally, I don’t get the sense that makes you feel that bad. I mean, I would imagine you would like to do that for your friends, but I don’t have the sense that . . .
CLIENT: I’m a little bit jealous.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Maybe this is just my pathology and normal people don’t do that, but it makes me reason that all of the life choices I made that caused me to – you know.
THERAPIST: Not wind up in that situation?
CLIENT: Be a worker, be in a Fortune 500 company instead of an entrepreneur starting my own companies and selling them to Google. [00:39:08] Not that everyone who starts a company gets to sell to Google.
THERAPIST: I’m sure you’re right.
CLIENT: Just like not every athlete gets to be Lebron James, but if you don’t play you don’t get the opportunity. If you don’t start any companies at all, you’re definitely not going to sell a company to Google.
THERAPIST: I stand corrected. I can see how it can make you feel bad and ashamed.
CLIENT: Maybe normal people don’t do that. Maybe they might just feel a twinge of envy and then move on with their lives and be happy for their friends, but the more I’m hanging out with that set of my friends, or maybe even that class – ha ha – I have to work really hard not ","P1-N400911":"to send myself into an emotional tailspin. [00:40:08] Timothy is buying his third vacation home because three houses weren’t enough? I don’t understand that kind of wealth. (long pause) [00:41:43] A sort of related thing – maybe not really related, but it’s what I’m thinking ","P1-N400912":"about right now – having this conversation with Lo over the weekend about Tracey, who is dating Lucy and is married to Matilda who is dating Lo. [00:41:59] I haven’t talked about Tracey much, but Tracey intimidates the hell out of me. Tracey is extraordinarily smart and extraordinarily incisive ","P1-N400913":"and has expertise in fields that I have never even thought about. Tracey has studied history and urban planning in college and does literary reviews and is published in literary journals. She knows lots and lots about medieval Europe and about folklore and the roots of contemporary American culture ","P1-N400914":"and can trace back various aspects of our culture to where their originating points in Europe were, et cetera, et cetera. She is just very incredibly smart in fields I’ve never studied and I’m intimidated by that. Lo was thinking, “Why are you so intimidated by Tracey? You’re ","P1-N400915":"just as smart as Tracey. You know people who are smarter from Harvard, both smarter than me and smarter than Tracey.” [00:43:06] Well, it’s hard for me to be intimidated by people who went through Harvard, especially by people who went through Harvard at the same time I did, even if they ","P1-N400916":"are more successful than me or smarter than me.
THERAPIST: Tracey did not go to Harvard, I gather?
CLIENT: Right. Tracey went to Bryn Mawr for undergrad and then Yale for grad school. I can’t remember if they got the PhD or they left with a Masters. So it’s just as prestigious as Harvard, but – I don’t know. Having that shared experience and background, it’s really hard ","P1-N400951":"for people from Harvard to intimidate me, whereas people who didn’t can.
THERAPIST: It’s something like a kind of foreignness, both in the field that she is interested in and where she went to school and stuff that makes her more imposing or something. We should stop for now.
CLIENT: See you next week.
THERAPIST: See you next week.