TITLE: Client "B", Session February 05, 2014: Client discusses never being able to live up to parents' expectations.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses never being able to live up to parents' expectations.
CLIENT: When I called they said they couldn’t get a cab out to me for an hour. (laughs) I sucked it up and drove. Thank goodness Cheshire Public Works are on the ball with the plows and the salt. (sighs) I’m no later than I usually am so . . . (both laugh) I am sorry about that, by the way. ","P1-N4000B1":"I really am trying to work on the punctuality. My boss sat me down for a Jesus conversation about my tardiness last week. He said he really needs me to be in the office no later than 10:00.
THERAPIST: Do you get out of here early enough?
CLIENT: This is fine. He’s flexible about actual appointments. It’s like when I don’t have anything there is no reason except my inability to [get out the door.] (ph?) Typically, when I leave here, if it’s not weather like this, I get to work around 10:10, which is fine. [00:01:03] ","P1-N4000F1":"Yesterday my boss told us not to bother coming to the office today, to just work from home. I treat myself to breakfast and then go home. I can.
THERAPIST: Nice.
CLIENT: (sighs) Have I told you about my friend, Yvonne and her shitty ex-husband, Christopher?
THERAPIST: A bit – I mean, not in a while. They both have abuse histories, maybe, and he’s been really horrible?
CLIENT: Yes. And, of course, he’s accusing her of being abusive. She finally got a lawyer. I’ve been pushing her to do that for two months now, but it was to the point where he refused to give her the passwords to their joint banking and savings accounts. I was like, “You need a lawyer. ","P1-N400171":"I will give you the money for the retainer. You can pay me back whenever, but you need a lawyer. This is not okay.” [00:02:04] And she was like, “But, but Christopher promised to love and honor and cherish me.” I said, “Yvonne . . .” Around Thanksgiving she asked me if ","P1-N400172":"we could schedule a regular weekly hangout because she and Christopher both are very introverted and have a great deal of social anxiety. I suspect Yvonne – she goes by Leila online as a pseudonym and I kind of use both names interchangeably –has PTSD, although I’m not a psychiatrist ","P1-N400173":"and can’t diagnose that. She has very few friends and she’s not comfortable talking about any of this stuff with anyone except me. It’s exhausting. [00:03:03]It’s at the point now where I start dreading our schedule hang-out time a day and a half to two days before we’re ","P1-N400174":"schedule to hang out. And then when we’re actually hanging out, it’s just her crying on my shoulder about things Christopher has done that are shitty for like three hours; and that sucks and it’s really exhausting. Then I come home and I am completely miserable and, also, super anxious ","P1-N400175":"about my own relationship because, from the outside looking in, Christopher looked solid and happy right up until all of a sudden I was hearing all of this stuff from Yvonne about how it wasn’t. Then I asked Dave, “Is there anything you’re not telling me? Is there anything you’re ","P1-N400176":"unhappy about?” Like let us talk about our relationship which, I bet, you can imagine how much Dave enjoys that. It’s just – ugh. [00:04:04] (pause)
THERAPIST: I see. You mean that comes from Matilda to Christopher to Yvonne to you?
CLIENT: Yes. And Matilda’s partner, Lo is one of the people I would normally talk to about these feelings, but I feel like that’s a little bit awkward. [00:05:04] Lo has been my best friend since we were like 18.
THERAPIST: For some reason I forgot that Matilda was Lo’s partner.
CLIENT: They are, in fact, going to be having a child together. (pause) So, yeah, I can’t talk to Lo about any of this. I’ve tried to talk to Dave about it, but he’s never been fond of Yvonne and he’s always hated Christopher so his advice is “just cut her out of your life” ","P1-N400211":"because he doesn’t see the things about the friendship that are valuable to me. [00:05:59] His first priority is protecting me, not doing the right thing by this person who is more or less a stranger to him. (pause)
THERAPIST: Okay, this isn’t really the point, but I guess as sort of an aside, I don’t see why you couldn’t, unless she said she didn’t want you to, talk to Lo. [00:06:58] I mean if her partner is seeing one of the people involved in treatment, that shouldn’t, unless it ","P1-N400231":"makes it so difficult for her and she says so . . .
CLIENT: I’ve certainly talked to Lo a little bit about how exhaustive it is to spend time with Yvonne and her hell child. Her five-year-old is remarkably, poorly disciplined and I understand the reasons for that. Yvonne and Christopher’s parents were both abusive on the authoritarian end ","P1-N400251":"of the scale, so they have erred in the direction of being way too fucking permissive with their child; but the kid is just horrible to be around. A big part of my distress around the situation is hearing things about Matilda that do not square with what I know about her and just not being able to cope ","P1-N400252":"with the cognitive dissonance. [00:08:06] Not the cognitive dissonance so much – that was a poor choice of words – but the steady stream of things about Matilda that . . . Yvonne is misdirecting a great deal of her anger towards Matilda, which I think is totally unfair. I think Christopher ","P1-N400253":"kind of deserves her anger. I recognize that this is 100% irrational and unfair of me, but there is a part of me that wants to say, “Why is Matilda treating this person who is clearly a horrible human being and needs to be sent to Siberia or something?” which I realize is completely irrational ","P1-N400254":"and unfair. Even people I don’t like deserve to have adequate medical care, et cetera, and that would be a totally inappropriate thing to express anywhere else outside of here. [00:09:03]
THERAPIST: I see. I certainly take your point about how part of what you want to be talking about is how upsetting it is to hear these things, supposedly from Matilda, that Lo would not be the one to talk to.
CLIENT: (sighs) (pause) My social circle is ridiculously tiny and incestuous, interconnected in ways that are sometimes ridiculous – like this. I don’t know if that’s normal. Are all social networks tightly connected with rich overlaps, or are my friends pathological or is it because ","P1-N400291":"of living in Cheshire? [00:10:08] I had no models for this growing up because my parents had no friends at all. So I don’t know what normal, healthy social friends’ groups look like.
THERAPIST: I think the part about having the therapist connected into the social network is unusual. I don’t think anybody has done anything wrong necessarily, but that part seems unusual. [00:11:03] I guess it’s hard for me to tell. Certainly your stuff at work sounds a bit insular, but ","P1-N4002B1":"it seems like it’s probably living in Cheshire, partly being in touch with people who you went to school with and are friends with people you went to school with in Cheshire. It’s not just having gone to school here in state, but the way that industry is connected to what people are studying; ","P1-N4002B2":"there is that. And it’s also some, I guess, where it’s the interests that holds some of this together.
CLIENT: And the polyamory makes everything feel tighter than it would be if we only had friendships connecting us as opposed to romantic relationships. [00:12:02]
THERAPIST: Also I would think that I don’t know how big the poly community around is, but I would guess it’s small enough that being in a city like Providence, knowing that people often want to be with people who are somewhat like them in some way, like the [ ] (inaudible at 00:12:36) community ","P1-N4002F1":"is going to be a pretty small, but somewhat insular community.
CLIENT: I know Lo from MIT and Lo met Matilda via Lo’s ex-girlfriend, Alex, who was then roommates with Matilda. They both went to Bryn Mawr. [00:12:58] Lila is Matilda’s wife. Lucy and Fern have a crush on Matilda’s cousin, so that branch of my social circle, at least, only Lo comes ","P1-N400311":"from Harvard, unlike other overlapping friends’ groups I have where we all went to Harvard. I have a big chunk of friends I know from Harvard; a big chunk of friends I know from my fraternity, Alpha Phi Omega. Obviously, there is overlap between Harvard and APO, but I also know brothers from [ ","P1-N400312":"] (inaudible at 00:13:32) Academy and WPI and IPI who live in Providence now. Another big chunk of my friends comes from church. Then there are connections I would not have expected. Someone I know from church knows Thomas through the folk dancing and folk singing community. (pause) [00:14:01] I heard ","P1-N400313":"something that I totally unexpected when I realized that Lucas from church knows Thomas. That’s a little bit disconcerting. (long pause) [00:15:05]
THERAPIST: The other thing I’m struck by is how . . . (long pause) [00:18:20] You seem to feel like if you’re other than perfectly accommodating to Yvonne, then you’re horrible. Actually, I think it even goes further than that. I think if you have a wish to be other than perfectly ","P1-N400351":"accommodating to Yvonne, that kind of already makes you horrible. [00:19:04] (pause)
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: It’s like in some very deep way, your job is to be completely in tune with what she needs, I guess because she’s having a hard time and is probably someone who really needs you – something like that. (pause) [00:20:06]
CLIENT: This is kind of reminding me of Thomas, what you just said – how I spent a lot of time trying to be perfectly accommodating to his needs or his space – and what I thought of in my head as his introvert level that cannot be breached. I felt like it was unreasonable of me to ask for ","P1-N4003B1":"things to be different. That was completely unsustainable and I ended up breaking up with him. It was not satisfying at all to me. (pause) [00:21:02]
THERAPIST: I guess I’m also struck by the parallel with your parents. They had no friends, either. This has all left you with a sense that you kind of don’t know where the hell the reality is – what’s reasonable; what other people would do. It’s like the world of the other ","P1-N4003D1":"person is so encompassing that you forget. [00:21:59] I might be wrong about this – it’s probably some of both. I don’t mean to be critical or anything, but I guess what I have in mind is it could be that you sort of neurotically forget, like there is something for you about this feeling ","P1-N4003D2":"of being kind of sucked into this thing with Yvonne, where you sort of lose touch with what is reasonable, although you might know at another time. And then another possibility is that you did grow up with so much of this from your parents and from other people that you just really don’t know ","P1-N4003D3":"in the first place, regardless of the situation. And the reason I say I suspect it’s at least a little bit of the former is because I don’t think you would hesitate to tell one of your friends if they were in this situation and asked you.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Or I think you would be able to predict what Dave would say, even if he liked Yvonne or another friend who was more in control of the situation. [00:23:05] So I’m not disagreeing about you having grown up in a bubble. I think you did and I think that is a problem, but I think there ","P1-N400411":"is also this other thing going on where, when you’re in it – I think this is probably some of what you struggled with with Thomas, getting a little bit enough of an outside point of view on it. (pause) [00:24:06] Maybe this explains a lot. We know that you all too often feel like you’re ","P1-N400412":"a really horrible person and have done things in a really horrible way. I wonder if that mostly happens when there is somebody you feel sort of in a bubble with in this way, who you have this sense wants or needs something from you that you can’t deliver. Like at work, there is this quality of ","P1-N400413":"they expect this of me; they want this of me; here is ideally what they need me to do . . .
CLIENT: Yeah, I was just thinking of work. [00:25:00]
THERAPIST: And any perspective on how hard it is or what else is going on or what else you might need to do or anything, what other people are doing, kind of gets lost. It’s sort of like you can’t accommodate or meet whatever the demand is. It’s kind of ipso facto; you’re terrible. ","P1-N400451":"(long pause) [00:26:43]
CLIENT: I keep connecting this to my parents, but I also feel like I have issues because with my parents, it’s entirely too facile and possibly [clichéd] (ph?) and also I should get over my parents. It’s been 15 years since I moved out of my house. It’s time to move on. [00:27:02] (pause)
THERAPIST: I wonder if another reason it’s hard to think about stuff with your parents in this light is because, at some level, that’s probably what they want. [00:27:58]
CLIENT: What I’m thinking about now is how my parents would withhold affection when I performed anything less than what was expected of me. If my report card didn’t have all A plusses, they wouldn’t give me hugs goodnight. They told me they were mad at me and they didn’t want ","P1-N4004B1":"to talk to me – go to bed without a hug. Or if I didn’t win a competition. I feel like I don’t actually know. I’ve never actually seen this, but my instincts say a normal parent would console their child for not winning; whereas my parents just made fun of me.
THERAPIST: Actually, you’re in the right direction, but I think you’re not even all the way there there. Another parent would have given – and you probably did or the competitions you remember – would probably say that you did a fantastic job. Not just “we’re consoling ","P1-N4004D1":"you because you didn’t win the State competition.” It would be like, “Oh, my God. Good for you. You worked hard. You did really well. You were in the top eliminator.” [00:29:03]
CLIENT: I won second in the State. My mom’s reaction was that second place was the first loser. Then dad made up a sing-song chant to make fun of me in the car ride.
THERAPIST: I remember it. Most parents, if their kid was really upset about not winning, would console them. A kid wouldn’t necessarily be upset and they would celebrate.
CLIENT: Really?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That happened in high school, too, except in a national competition, Science Olympiad, which, among my peers at Harvard, Science Olympiad was like the dumb-kid’s sport. Smart kids went and did other things.
THERAPIST: [ ] (inaudible at 00:29:56) MIT. [00:29:58]
CLIENT: I realize my peer group is not representative. In high school, at least, Science Olympiad was kind of the center of my universe. It’s broken up into events, kind of like a track and field meet; so you’ll have a team of 20 people, each of whom will compete in anywhere from three to ","P1-N4005B1":"seven events. I took (laughs) silver medal in every event I competed in at the national tournament.
THERAPIST: That was like the second?
CLIENT: Yes. It was the same person I was competing against who beat me in every single one. I still remember his name. It was Kirk. He was from Oregon. We competed against each other in Nationals every year for three years and [hated] (ph?) each other. Anyway, Kirk from Troy gold-medaled in all of ","P1-N4005F1":"my events. He ended up going to Stanford. [00:31:00] My coach was pissed at me for not winning. In fact, at our end of the year banquet, where the team captains gave mock awards to everyone, my friend, Neal, got the pyromaniac award because he had set the most accidental fires in the chem lab. I got ","P1-N4005F2":"biggest loser as my award because second place is the first loser. I don’t know. At the time, I kind of internalized that message, but in hindsight, why the fuck did the coaches and parents let people get away with being that cruel?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that’s crazy.
CLIENT: And it wasn’t just me. The awards everyone got were needlessly, viciously cruel. (sighs) But my parents told me they were disappointed in me. (pause) [00:32:06]
THERAPIST: That’s terrible.
CLIENT: There is a part of me that wants to say, “Okay, now that I’ve pinpointed where this comes from, I can turn off this emotional reaction because I’ve figured it out. I should stop feeling like I’m a terrible person for not living up to unreasonable expectations. I know ","P1-N400671":"where it comes from because my parents’ expectations were unreasonable and they reinforced this with tough loving and training, withholding affection. Now that solves the problem. Move onto the next one.”
THERAPIST: Right. My sense, when you say that, is clearly no, it doesn’t work that way. But pointing out that in another iteration of it, I think we’re talking about once it feels like there is sort of that expectation for how you’re supposed to be – however that outrageous – ","P1-N400691":"you’re supposed to meet it. [00:33:08] I think there, in a subtle way it seems to me – and you may disagree – it’s a little bit my expectation. Not exactly, but maybe it’s more like it’s in the air in a way. What you’re saying is according to a model of how ","P1-N400692":"therapy works. When you pinpoint the source of the emotional problem and you understand the context that way, then you are supposed to be able to move beyond it and get to the n next thing. Thus proceedeth therapy. [00:34:01]
CLIENT: You have explained to me multiple times that’s not how it works; and I guess cognitively I can accept that.
THERAPIST: Sure, but this is one of the durable qualities in your relationship with your parents, which are clearly impervious to the reality – I’m sorry, but it doesn’t work that way or that I have sort of articulated. (pause) [00:35:03]
CLIENT: Have you heard the joke about the mathematician, the physicist and the engineer?
THERAPIST: Which one?
CLIENT: A physicist, an engineer and a mathematician are in a hotel at a conference or something.
THERAPIST: There is the one about the sheet and the one about the fire?
CLIENT: This is the fire one. The physicist calculates the heat transfer of the fire, trying to predict the exact amount of water necessary to put out the fire and burns to death. The engineer overestimates her safety margin, gets a bucket of water, puts out the fire, and was fine. The mathematician ","P1-N400771":"looks at the fire and says, “This is a previously-solved problem,” and goes back to sleep. (both chuckle) I used the phrase “previously-solved problem” earlier and it reminded me of that. [It is a way of gently mocking myself; just because you know the solution to a problem doesn’t ","P1-N400772":"mean that there is not still work to implement it. [00:36:05] (pause)
THERAPIST: I would explain it a little differently. When you [ ] (inaudible at 00:36:32). Maybe I’m just impeding this, but to me it also seems like you might be in touch with some sadness or feel a little [acute] (ph?) about how you’ve been burned from this.
CLIENT: Yep. (pause) I know it doesn’t do me any good to dwell on ways in which my life would be different if my parents were less-horrible people. [00:37:08]
THERAPIST: You don’t know that it doesn’t do you any good to dwell on that. I am aware that it will not make them different than they are. It certainly won’t change the way they are, but I suspect your impulse to do that relates to how it would put you in touch with how upset you are ","P1-N4007D1":"and how much you missed out on because of how they were; and that’s very real, I think. [00:38:01] (pause) We should finish up. Good luck in the snow.
CLIENT: Thanks.