TITLE: Client "B", Session January 30, 2014: Client discusses frustration with romantic partner over intimacy and using the words, 'I love you.'
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses frustration with romantic partner over intimacy and using the words, 'I love you.'
THERAPIST: Hey.
CLIENT: Hi. And I don’t know where to start.
THERAPIST: Is something that matter? You look sad today.
CLIENT: I am tired. And work has not been going well. And I am still upset about breaking up with Thomas, even though that is ridiculous. It was a month and a half ago, and I should get over it already. [0:01:03] I ended up spending a good chunk of Saturday afternoon over at his place because he was ","P1-N400111":"feeling rotten and needed moral support. And his partner [0:01:19] was out of town. And I realized the extreme imbalance there when… and when I came back from Missouri and really, really needed moral support he was like no, can’t do it. But anyway, that was tough, and I don’t know. ","P1-N400112":"I shouldn’t have gone over there. I should have said [inaudible] something, anything. (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess you missed him. [0:02:08]
CLIENT: I did. I do. It’s ridiculous. His birthday was Saturday, and Lucy, I think I’ve mentioned, she’s married to Thomas’ former roommate. They were roommates right up until October when Lucy and Pete got married. And she’s presently…
THERAPIST: Sonya who you have a crush on?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Making sure I have the right one. I…
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: [inaudible]
CLIENT: Lucy who I have a crush on, who is cousins with Matilda, [ph] who is dating Matilda’s wife Tracey, who… yeah. [0:03:00] I realize my social circle is ridiculously incestuous. I’m sorry. It sounds like the plot to Days of Our Lives or something. But anyway, Lucy and I are meeting ","P1-N400211":"up on Saturday to bake Thomas cake for his birthday because I am bad at boundaries apparently. (pause)
THERAPIST: I… what I think about is why you seem so keen on chastising yourself for still having feelings for Thoma, and being upset about things ending with him and other things. [0:06:06] (pause) I can’t tell whether (pause) I don’t know. I mean I’m wondering, is it how you’re ","P1-N400231":"dealing with the kind of vulnerability that goes with having feelings for somebody, is it that there’s something a bit fun, in a way, about feeling… or exciting about feeling kind of (pause) I don’t know, critical of yourself in that way, is it that… I don’t know.
CLIENT: And consciously, at least, it’s feeling stupid for having put myself in the position where I let myself be so vulnerable to someone who made it very clear from very early on that he did not, and would never, love me. [0:08:08]
THERAPIST: He did?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: You never mentioned that.
CLIENT: We had a conversation in August about the fact that he does not use the word love except in… for people he thinks he might want to [inaudible] having this conversation about whether [inaudible] marriage is a tool of oppression and how [ph] children who are genetically [inaudible] And also, ","P1-N4002D1":"more than once, when I was like well, where do I stand with you, how do you feel about me, here are the things I feel about you, and his response in every case boiled down to having me over was good for him because my presence encouraged him to eat better and clean up his apartment and make sure he ","P1-N4002D2":"had clean clothes and the sex was good. [0:09:10] And those aren’t really feelings. And I’m happy to be good for the people I date and care about. I certainly hope that I am good for them as opposed to the alternative…
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: …but those aren’t feelings.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause)
CLIENT: I can’t believe I haven’t mentioned that. [0:10:11] That’s the key part of why I’m so angry at myself over how things happened.
THERAPIST: I mean you have mentioned him not being more expressive of feelings towards you and your asking him for that, but I don’t… yeah (pause)
CLIENT: My friend Lo put it this way. She said that Dave [inaudible] is more expressive about his feelings towards varieties of cheese than Thomas is about his feelings towards me, which is unfortunately true. [0:11:04] And granted, Dave is probably more expressive about cheese than the average human. ","P1-N400391":"He’s several sentences [ph] above the average…
THERAPIST: I see, when it comes to… in the [inaudible] expressiveness about cheese category.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, good to mention. (pause) I think I get the point though. (pause)
CLIENT: Sorry, [inaudible] says [inaudible] bell curve and of course from my perspective more would be here but [inaudible]
THERAPIST: No, I think… yeah. [0:12:04] Well (pause) All right, so I… his… I think… what? [0:13:11]
CLIENT: Your stuttering is just like you just have no idea what to do with me.
THERAPIST: Oh, no, no. I was still probably a little fuzzy from being sick, and I’m sort of trying to think how of to explain something. But I actually, surprisingly, feel it’s like all of a sudden a little clearer, maybe, what’s going on, which is I think you use the self-criticism ","P1-N400471":"and self-flagellation to protect you from feeling closer and actually, in a way, kind of more vulnerable with Tracy. I mean it absolutely is a problem he is not more expressive about his feelings for you, and hasn’t been. Absolutely. But it seems to me you equate that with his not having feelings ","P1-N400472":"for you or not demonstrating those in other ways. [0:14:22] I mean whatever he says about it, it seems evident that there are people he loves and that, who knows, I sort of have the impression, maybe I’m wrong about this, that there are ways in which you guys have been quite close, actually, and ","P1-N400473":"that it’s pretty clear that he’s incredibly uncomfortable or awkward or anxious or something, [inaudible] something (laughter) about being explicit about any of that. [0:15:11] But you sort of do the other thing, which is though you provide some evidence of knowing better, I think, otherwise ","P1-N400474":"I have no [inaudible] know that there are things he feels, though he won’t say them. And you turn it into being sort of, as you often do as we know, about your own stupidity. I mean if you were saying look, I think it’s not good for me to be involved with somebody who’s not more up ","P1-N400475":"front about his feelings because it makes me…
CLIENT: It turns me into an anxious neurotic mess.
THERAPIST: Something like that, yeah. Okay, I get it. But to say well I’m stupid for being with somebody who said he doesn’t get into love at all. [0:16:12] The tenor of which I think I heard much more as being like he was… well no, in fact is… was what you said, was not just ","P1-N4004B1":"implication, that he said he wasn’t going to love you.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which is kind of bullshit. I mean I think he may never say it, but I mean from what you… again, maybe I don’t have a sense of him at all, but from the things you’ve described about him, I don’t know if he’s feeling love or not, but he’s capable of being ","P1-N4004F1":"close and to kind of enjoy things about that with you, loathe though he clearly is to admit it.
CLIENT: If you say so.
THERAPIST: Yeah. You know what I mean? It doesn’t mean there’s a big difference between it turns me into an anxious and neurotic mess when somebody doesn’t say it because then all my demons get going and whatever, or self-doubt, fine, and well he said he was never going to feel that ","P1-N400531":"way and that just makes me an idiot. [0:17:06] The second one… in the second one it seems to me as though you’re operating in a way where you would rather focus on and think about your own stupidity than the closeness you feel to be there between you. (pause) And while I…
CLIENT: It might just prove the point you’re trying to make, but I don’t know, I feel like there wasn’t a whole lot of emotional closeness.
THERAPIST: Okay. Yeah, I’m… yeah, well it’s your… I mean you made… this is a hard thing for me to get a clear sense of. [0:18:15]
CLIENT: Right. So I don’t know, it just (pause) so my laundry list is things that made me feel unliked and unappreciated in that relationship. I mean there was a lot, actually. But the fact that I had to do all of the scheduling and planning of our dates, or I would suggest a day to meet up that ","P1-N400591":"was like a week and a half, two weeks into the future, and he would say no, I’m overscheduled, I’m too busy, I need time to myself, and would suggest a date that was four, five weeks in the future. And then I would watch his calendar fill up with appointments with other women, which I have ","P1-N400592":"no idea what the nature of those relationships are. [0:19:09] I don’t know any of the people he was meeting. For all I know it could’ve been a psychologist or a lawyer or a business contact or whatever. But it was still like the fact that he wasn’t forthright with me about what was ","P1-N400593":"going on, saying he needed time to himself and then making appointments with other people. I don’t usually get jealous in relationships. That’s actually remarkably rare for me. I’m not going to say something so asinine as I don’t feel jealousy, but it’s it is unusual and ","P1-N400594":"it’s generally a red flag for me that there’s something going wrong. Or the fact that we would be having a conversation about whatever and he would just not engage with what I was saying. I would say something and then he would say something completely unrelated about a completely different ","P1-N400595":"topic and… with no verbal segue or indication that he was thinking of something else. [0:20:12] It was very odd and… but to some extent that’s something he does with everyone. He’s just bad at conversational back and forth. But it certainly contributed to the feeling that he ","P1-N400596":"wasn’t paying any attention to things that were important to me. And the fact that in eight months he never asked me how are you, how was your day, how are you doing. Nothing. And that’s not hyperbolated; it started…
THERAPIST: No, I believe you.
CLIENT: …feeling weird after the first two weeks of chatting online, where almost everyone who I chat with frequently online the first thing we do when we start talking is ask how are you, spend a few minutes… I’m feeling down, oh, I’ve had a good day, oh, work is crazy, my boss ","P1-N4005D1":"is an asshole, whatever. And it’s not long; it’s only a few lines, but… and he never did. And so I started paying attention, and he never once asked how are you, either in person or online. That was really weird. [0:21:12] And of course his response to me telling him that I love him ","P1-N4005D2":"and care about him and he matters to me and the relationship is important to me, his response was basically you’re good in bed, which was kind of insulting actually.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure.
CLIENT: I mean there is a time and place to tell someone you’re having sex with that you enjoy having sex with them, but…
THERAPIST: At times it can be really nice to hear; that was not one of them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure. (pause)
CLIENT: But yeah, it felt really clear to me that I was not a priority for him. And again, it’s not the sort of relationship where I thought it might lead to things like comingling finances or genetic material, but… and I certainly never expect to be anyone’s first priority or even ","P1-N400691":"top five for casual relationships. I hate phrasing things primary, secondary, tertiary. It’s just horrible language. But I know a lot of polyamorous people in Providence like to use… that’s really gross to me. But there is a difference between relationships that are long term partnerships ","P1-N400692":"and ones that aren’t. But I’m expected to be on the priority list somewhere, right, like maybe down around 10 or 12, but I’m expected to be on there somewhere. And it felt like I wasn’t at all. [0:23:11]
THERAPIST: Yeah, and that is all stuff that you have made clear before, and I’d take the point of… and it’s unclear to me whether… I mean who’s to say… now I’d have more the feeling like for you that conveyed he didn’t care whereas I guess there are other ","P1-N4006B1":"times where it was more like it’s clearly his awkwardness, anxiety, inhibition, something about expressing what he feels.
CLIENT: And I don’t know where the truth lies between those two, probably some combination, but it is easier for me to frame it as he never cared and I’m an idiot for thinking he could as opposed to he has serious problems and… that I wasn’t able to surmount. [0:24:38] (pause)
THERAPIST: You sort of rolled your eyes when you said the last part, I thought, problems that you weren’t able to surmount.
CLIENT: Not deliberately. I might’ve been a searching for the correct word to [inaudible] in that sentence.
THERAPIST: Okay. Yeah, I guess I just wanted to make sure I wasn’t missing something.
CLIENT: Sometimes I will look up if I’m trying to think of a word. (pause)
THERAPIST: I think the other thing is in your phrasing, I mean this is probably the way I asked, but in your phrasing of it, in terms of problems of his that you couldn’t surmount, it starts to head even a little bit back in the direction of putting it on you (pause) in keeping the other aspect ","P1-N400771":"of it. [0:26:33] (pause)
CLIENT: I have some indication from a lot of his friends that the story he is telling himself about the relationship is that he wasn’t able to connect emotionally because he’s depressed, and that’s why I broke up with him, because he’s depressed, which is a really shitty way ","P1-N400791":"of framing it. (pause)
THERAPIST: Shitty meaning him being critical of you? [0:28:34]
CLIENT: Hmm?
THERAPIST: Shitty meaning him being critical of you?
CLIENT: Yeah, or just inaccurate. I didn’t break up with him because he’s depressed. That’s not even remotely what I think happened. I broke up with him because I feel like I need and deserve to have partners who show an interest in my life and ask how I’m doing and want to see ","P1-N400811":"me more often than once every five weeks. That was just untenable, and it was making me crazy. (pause)
THERAPIST: Right, and that [inaudible] the part that isn’t so much, I think, in [inaudible] with the other part. Do you know what I mean? [0:30:51] That feels like you were stupid to get into this in the first place. (pause) What’s on your mind?
CLIENT: Well so in December there was this meeting [ph] going around the Internet of tell me what to write about on my blog that a bunch of my friends were doing, so I did also. [0:32:19] And my friend Tristan asked me to write a post about a poet or poem that I like. And I went long, long past the ","P1-N400851":"deadline. It was supposed to go up December 27 but it didn’t. But I’ve been trying to catch up. There are a couple of posts from that meeting [ph] that I’ve been meaning to write. But so yesterday I sat down after work to start to write this and then I got blocked, like mild writer’s ","P1-N400852":"block, and I went to surf Facebook. And my friend Matilda had posted a link to an old post on somebody’s blog from 2010 where Lucy wrote about the poet Sappho, and then gave her own translations of 700 lines of ancient Greek. And it’s just, I don’t know, inferiority complex because ","P1-N400853":"I can’t… I know my reviews are not as good to read as other reviewers, and Lucy is particularly gifted reviewing media, especially poetry. [0:33:22] And poetry is hard to write about. And I don’t speak four different dialects of ancient Greek. She knows Aeolic and Attic and two others. ","P1-N400854":"I don’t know. I’m not a classic scholar. I don’t even know what types of Greek she knows. I certainly can’t translate Sappho at all, which… so then, I don’t know. So then I scratched my post about Sappho and how much I love her because [inaudible]
THERAPIST: [inaudible] Well, I apologize in advance being a little [inaudible] with this, but I think this is what happens when you start to feel kind of anxious, neurotic, like you said, mad. [0:34:59]
CLIENT: I did say mad.
THERAPIST: When you start to feel that way is there’s a person comes [inaudible] and so inscrutable [ph] like they are. (laughter) They are! You have no idea [inaudible] people that way. I apologize in advance. So the fact that (pause) they matter to you becomes pointless. What matters is that ","P1-N4008B1":"you can’t translate the ancient Greek not that you read [ph] Sappho or inspired or whatever it is that (pause) Yeah, I… for a time I [inaudible] I mean I think it’s a little more complicated with [inaudible] maybe [inaudible] there’s a person you have feelings about in the first ","P1-N4008B2":"place, like Tracy or Sappho, and then there’s another person like me or Sonya in a relationship you feel inadequate and as though the whole your having feelings in the first place and all of that gets kind of disqualified in relation to your talking to me feeling like an idiot about how you feel ","P1-N4008B3":"about Tracy, and similarly I think with Sappho because of Sonya. [0:37:55] That it makes you feel so inadequate.
CLIENT: Yup.
THERAPIST: And so ashamed of how you feel, having those feelings of who you are probably. I guess that… and also [inaudible] in relation to me [inaudible]
CLIENT: See you next week.