TITLE: Client "J", Session December 07, 2012: Client talks about his responsibilities.
DESCRIPTION: Client talks about his responsibilities.
CLIENT: (laughter) Did you go antiquing while I was gone?
THERAPIST: (laughter) Right after Pilates class and the chardonnay kicked in.
CLIENT: [Sort of a] (ph) stereotype there. So how did you survive without me?
THERAPIST: A lot of Kleenex.
CLIENT: I almost killed my son (ph).
THERAPIST: Oh no. Sorry to hear that.
CLIENT: After the one thousandth "daddy." I was doing good for the few days and part of the problem was I having these bad stomachaches. So my mom gave me some medication and I think the medication, though helping the stomachaches, made me a little irritable.
THERAPIST: Which is not helped by him being an energetic six-year-old boy, away.
CLIENT: Right. So we get up in the morning and that's, like, the time I was trying to get work done. So it's like every second, "Daddy, why?" You know, we went to Santa's Forest, which is like a little amusement park (inaudible at 01:21). "What was your favorite ride? What was your favorite ride? Can ","P1-N4001B1":"I have my candy apple now?" "Buddy, it's 6:00 in the morning. You can't have (ph) the candy apple." But overall, I guess it was a good time.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 02:23)
CLIENT: This is, like, a Lexus. I don't know the letters. That's probably why he has a bad back, is all these years of driving sports car, you know. He had a Z back when it was Datsun. He had the...
THERAPIST: 280Z?
CLIENT: Yeah, he had the 280Z and he had the 280ZX. I don't know if he ever got the 300 but he drove those for years. And he had the t-tops and the 2+2 with the back seats that were completely worthless, you know. That's probably why his back is so crappy.
THERAPIST: Can he walk around much? [00:03:32]
CLIENT: Yeah, he can get around but, you know, he's got a walker and he's tired. He slept most of the time. You know, they were sleeping till, like, 10:00 a.m. So Ian (sp?) was up at 6:00, you know, so it was, like, four hours of just, "I'm hungry. I'm this, I'm that," you know. I wrapped (ph) this ","P1-N4002B1":"deal that's supposed to close today that they haven't cleared it yet and there's just all these little things keep cropping up. So I'm dealing with that and I'm trying to get a title don. And, you know, [I'm trying] (ph). I know my client. He's earned (ph) money to the closing so I'm trying to, like, ","P1-N4002B2":"estimate what they need to bring and, you know, so I'm trying to do math and he's just, you know.
THERAPIST: Daddy.
CLIENT: And it's, like, not less than minute of me telling him I'm trying to do work, not to bother me he's like, "Daddy." I mean, like, no recollection of the previous 30 seconds.
THERAPIST: Almost as if you didn't say it.
CLIENT: Yes. Yeah, as if I hadn't said it. Not even almost or (inaudible at 04:40). So I (ph) just was getting more frustrated and more frustrated. But I'm just not used to having him for that long, right. And the meds definitely were part of, you know. I've tried taking this medication before for my ","P1-N400331":"stomach (ph). It makes me a little more irritable than usual, though I haven't really been that irritable lately.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 05:29)
CLIENT: I paid like 8.50 or 9 bucks in the airport before for, like, a good sandwich, where this were, like, not even, you know.
THERAPIST: Right. (inaudible at 05:37)
CLIENT: Yeah. My dad gave me some money so I'm like, really shouldn't be complaining. But Jess calls us up and Lucille's it's, like, four o'clock. We've got a 5:30 flight. She's like, you know, "[I still] (ph) didn't call to pick up Lucille up from daycare," that she has a fever a little over 101. ","P1-N4003D1":"And (sighs) she wants us to take a cab home. Like, you have to be kidding me. I go, "First of all, I just spent 30 bucks on sandwiches, you know, and now you want me to spend money on a cab." I've got this thing about cabs too. I'm not a big fan of cabs. I don't know why. I just prefer not to ride in ","P1-N4003D2":"the cab. Plus I have to have this booster seat, you know, our coats are in your car and there's a line at the cab stand, which of course there was not. But, you know, it's like and she started, you know, she goes into this, "Oh, you know, I don't want to have Lucille all over town." And it's like, ","P1-N4003D3":"you're driving her 15 minutes to the airport, you know. I told her I think she's overstating, you know. [00:06:55]
THERAPIST: Oh wow, nice (ph).
CLIENT: She grabs my finger and drags me around the house and, you know. But I can only take, like, an hour of it. I'm like, "All right, I have to go." And she's like, "No, no, no." But then she, you know one time she said, you know, she wanted me to go. And Jess's like, "You want daddy to go?" And ","P1-N400451":"she's like, "Yes. No, no." (laughter) Like she thought about it for a second. [00:08:17]
THERAPIST: Straight from the airport?
CLIENT: Yeah, pretty much. We may have gone to lunch first. No, we went to Best Buy first. And of course, as we were leaving the airport there was a double-decker that couldn't leave the clearance and they shaved off the top as it went under the underpass, went to the arrivals instead of basically, ","P1-N4004D1":"it was a guy who lost. He shouldn't have been in the airport at all. Ended up killing two people, 30 people (inaudible at 10:18).
THERAPIST: Oh my god.
CLIENT: You know, it was a group of Jehovah's Witnesses going out to some conference.
THERAPIST: Oh god (inaudible at 10:24).
CLIENT: And so it's like mass tragedy. They won't' take blood transfusions, you know, so they had to work around that.
THERAPIST: Because they're Jehovah's Witnesses?
CLIENT: Right. But Ian (sp?) of course is interested in it. And I'm reading the articles on it. He's like, "What's that? What are you reading?" I'm like, "I'm reading about the bus." He's like, "Oh, read the article to me." I'm like, "No buddy." Crushed chest and, you know, just all this...
THERAPIST: Graphic.
CLIENT: It's bad enough that I, you know, told him that people had died, you know. But I figured why shelter him from that kind of stuff. He was interested. Every ride we went on at the amusement park that wasn't, like, an on-the-ground ride or a fun house, he's like, "Is this ride safe?" And of course, ","P1-N4005D1":"you know, I don't think they're safe. They're these people traveling, you know, carnival things that, you know. So I'm like, "Yeah, sure they're fine." But my buddy's kid and his kid came with us. He's got three kids -the oldest came.
THERAPIST: Oh (inaudible at 11:32)
CLIENT: What's that? Yeah. He's the reason I moved up here, because I came up to visit him in college and I liked it up here. So I came to law school up here. And then I spent summer here in, like, '91, before I moved up here. But that was fun, you know. Me and Ian (sp?) had a good time. There was one ","P1-N400611":"ride they wouldn't let Ian (sp?) on -he was too tall. Evan is 42 inches, so he just barely got on the rides. And Ian (sp?) was 50 inches and was denied the motorcycle. But they let him drive on the bumper cars, which I really wanted to drive.
THERAPIST: That was very [big of you] (ph) to (inaudible at 12:26).
CLIENT: Yeah. He was in reverse most of the time, you know, and I would (inaudible at 12:33) him around. But he had a ball. He's like, "How did I drive? How did I drive?" "You did awesome, buddy." We didn't have any good head-on collisions, which is, like, those are the best. But, you know, he doesn't ","P1-N400651":"know. He hits the other car and he's happy. And then there was one of those big slides where you sit on the burlap sack and go down, you know, and of course I'm fat and too big for this thing so I go flying off the end of it and everybody's laughing at me, you know. And he wants to go again, so we go ","P1-N400652":"again. And my buddy is like, "Stand up when you get to the end, stand up when you get to the end." So I go and I'm flying down and I get to the end and I pop up onto my feet and I'm wearing my pants, and I literally slid on my feet for, like, six feet. Because they had, like, this mat laid out. No cushions ","P1-N400653":"or anything like that. You have this mat and then asphalt, you know. I went out into the asphalt. [00:13:36]
THERAPIST: I see. (inaudible at 14:03)
CLIENT: Yeah, I'm really out of shape. That probably has a lot to do with it. I haven't been doing my exercises. I gained weight. You got rid of the desk?
THERAPIST: Rid of the desk, yeah.
CLIENT: I knew something was different.
THERAPIST: Yeah (inaudible at 14:24) and I rearranged the couch.
CLIENT: I thought it was already over there. No, because the desk was over there. It was over there.
THERAPIST: Yeah. The last couple weeks I think I had the couch there and the desk kind of squeezed over there.
CLIENT: So I decided to pass on the task of ordering the pay-off for today on to the closing attorney's paralegal. She asked for the info. I'll just give her the info. And it's housing. And they had already called and left me a message and said it was a two day turnaround time and then you need written ","P1-N400771":"authorization. So it's like, OK, this is Monday. I listened to the message early Tuesday morning but they called me back on Monday. So I sent an email to the paralegal. "Do you have an authorization form? You know, you're going to need that." And my client, of course, is traveling so she can't get it ","P1-N400772":"back to me until Wednesday and we literally don't get it back till noon on Wednesday.
THERAPIST: Right, there's an issue with that.
CLIENT: And that's how this one attorney had, like, three mortgages on this house and he had this realtor and the mortgage people were scamming and he kept buying and selling the house but not paying off the mortgages. And they were able to get three mortgages on there until Fannie Mae did an audit ","P1-N400811":"after everything blew up. "We're going to start auditing our files" and realized that they had three mortgages on the same house. You know, it's, like, maybe this is something that should have come you prior to that second mortgage being (inaudible at 18:34), you know. I don't think it'd be a very hard ","P1-N400812":"system to put in place, you know. They have a registration system which they easily could just, you know, do a search of the previous mortgage. You can do it property address. So it's not like they don't have access to, you know. It's their Web site, you know, get the current servicer and, you know, ","P1-N400813":"two mortgages come up then it should be a red flag, you know. Especially the third. I could see a second mortgage being there because there's an assumption the first one's going to get paid off. But it's that third one that's and how these guys thought that they'd never notice that the payments weren't ","P1-N400814":"being made, you know. And they were using the proceeds from the I mean, they were making the payments out of the proceeds from the next rebuy (ph) or purchase or whatever. So they would take out the first loan and get the money on the second loan and use money from the second loan to keep paying the ","P1-N400815":"first loan, and then they did the third loan to pay the second loan. (inaudible at 19:51)
THERAPIST: I see. At that point (inaudible at 19:52)
CLIENT: Because they're not paying off the loan, they're sitting there with hundreds of thousands of dollars. And so they used that to keep making payments.
THERAPIST: Right, so they...
CLIENT: But at some point you have to pay off these mortgages, you know, because you can't keep making payments forever. Then what's the point of committing the fraud? So I don't know what they're end game was. I guess I wouldn't be very good at committing a crime. (inaudible at 20:32)
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 23:07)
CLIENT: Making up for all the time I didn't have money. I'm almost caught up with my landlord.
THERAPIST: Good. (inaudible at 23:20)
CLIENT: Yeah. He at first had sent me an email and made it look like I was, like, six months behind [or something] (ph).
THERAPIST: Right, I remember that.
CLIENT: But then he went through his mail and found two checks from October he never opened up. So there may be another one out there, I don't know, but, you know, I sent him another check. So I'm getting close. In November my rent goes down so I have to figure out when (inaudible at 23:48) caught up ","P1-N4009B1":"and pay the lesser amount. I need to go through it myself and make sure that he's if I had got everything from the date I sent the check or he has everything from the month he applied it, and he wasn't applying it, like, you know...
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 24:05)
CLIENT: (inaudible at 24:05).
THERAPIST: You can probably look and see which ones he's cashed, right?
CLIENT: Well no, because I used online bill payer, so as soon as I initiated the check well, I guess, yeah. Because even those checks would cash. I'd have to look at each check. Because the money gets pulled out of my account immediately and then they send the check. Or my other bill payer with USAA, ","P1-N400A31":"they send him the check and the check is cashed.
THERAPIST: Right. It's just like you write the check.
CLIENT: And when it's cashed, it comes out of your account. But I like the system of it coming out of my account right away because when my landlord doesn't deposit the two from October, the IRS can't take it. It's already gone. You know, that's what happened, how I go so far behind. Part of the reason ","P1-N400A71":"I got so far behind is because I had a check for two months and he didn't cash them and the IRS took it. (inaudible at 25:19)
THERAPIST: I guess that's the way it works (inaudible at 25:26) the other thing it (inaudible at 25:27) me is to wonder whether it'd be better, like, to get (ph) my bank check or something.
CLIENT: This is the same effect, plus you might lose a bank check, which I guess isn't my problem.
THERAPIST: Right, yeah. But you want to...
CLIENT: I should be just be giving him cash (inaudible at 25:45). (sighs) I have a condo conversion I need to start working on. (pause) I guess maybe at some point today I'll do it out of boredom.
THERAPIST: You'll what?
CLIENT: I'll do it out of boredom. Start, you know, working on (inaudible at 26:23).
CLIENT: Ian's (sp?) cub scout pack has a sing-along tonight so I guess get to go Christmas caroling people (inaudible at 26:46). And he's got skating tomorrow. 8:00 a.m. It's fucking cold (inaudible at 26:59).
THERAPIST: (laughter)
CLIENT: And I don't know if he's going to sleep over tonight or not. I really don't want him to. (laughter) I need a break.
THERAPIST: You need a break.
CLIENT: So I've been trying to get Micah (sp?) to order some Clonazepam for me by renewing it from CVS. It hasn't happened yet. It's, like, she doesn't want me calling or she wants me to do like that but it never seems to happen. It's getting a little frustrating because I don't want to (pause) I don't ","P1-N400C11":"want to have to call her. I mean, maybe there are some stuff that are going right and I'm not focusing on them, you know, like things that happened without me having to make a second phone call or, you know (inaudible at 28:47).
THERAPIST: None of the things you can actually think of. (laughter)
CLIENT: They got my order right at the coffee shop.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that's about as far as it goes. (pause) Yeah, I mean, I'm hearing you describe a bunch of things you're frustrated about but...
CLIENT: I know the (ph) prescription's ready for pickup. I've done it twice now. I did it Wednesday. And they used to CVS would call me and tell me to call my doctor, that they couldn't get in touch with them, but they're not calling me now. It's like, maybe I should call CVS. I don't know. They're ","P1-N400C91":"going to tell me to call my doctor. I think I see why I don't actually get (inaudible at 29:50). Since I was kind of not very anxious down in Louisiana, I didn't take a lot of it so I have a couple left. I intentionally did it. Well, before that I ran out, knowing that they won't give me a few to tide ","P1-N400C92":"me over. I don't understand because (pause) I don't get anything out of taking these things. It's not like they make me high or buzzed or, you know...
THERAPIST: Nothing fun.
CLIENT: Just less anxious, you know. Maybe sleepy. So they make it hard on me. Everyone wants to try and keep me down. Everyone.
THERAPIST: Everyone (inaudible at 30:48). (pause) I'll probably make it worse by blaming you for looking at things that way or something like that.
CLIENT: At least tell me I need to take responsibility for it.
THERAPIST: Something like that.
CLIENT: You'll ask me if I want to work on it and I'll blow it off and we'll never (inaudible at 31:16), which you don't care about because, you know, it's stream of cash for you. So (laughter) carrying (ph) me is not, you know...
THERAPIST: Not in my interests.
CLIENT: ...an interest, you know. Like I said, I never understood why my dad would want to do a hysterectomy. It's like, you know, you're cutting off your nose to spite your face, you know. (laughter) It's a gold mine in there, you know. All kinds of things could go wrong, you know. Try and keep it ","P1-N400D91":"alive. I mean, some are voluntary, like people who have a history of uterine cancer or something like that. I don't know if I told you I got my uric acid level test back.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that was an issue, right?
CLIENT: Yeah, with the (inaudible at 32:22) attack on Thanksgiving. But my uric acid level is normal, which could be a false negative. So that's, you know, one more thing I've got to deal with. This foot falls asleep all the time when I'm sitting on the floor. I [could sit] (ph) on the couch. I have ","P1-N400DD1":"my laptop on the coffee table so right now I'm (inaudible at 32:49) on the floor and my foot falls asleep.
THERAPIST: I think your point about how it's really not in my interest for you to work on anything or get any better. It's not so obvious...
CLIENT: What is she going to say about my foot falling asleep?
THERAPIST: (laughter) It's not so obvious why it's in your interest.
CLIENT: Yeah, but I'm diluted. So (pause) about the time (inaudible at 33:24)
THERAPIST: Maybe you like coming in the way it is.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Talk about that being heard, mostly not being (inaudible at 33:37) I guess.
CLIENT: And I feel constantly, like, you know, with the whole thing with Jess, you know, it's like I've kind of been doing a bit of stuff for her and paying for stuff and not asking any money for taxes and not asking any money for work expenses (inaudible at 33:58). But I've given her, you know, I paid ","P1-N400ED1":"it weeks ago and she still hasn't given me a check and it's, like, you know, I've been helping her out a little bit. Just overreact. She hadn't even picked up Lucille yet and she's cancelling the airport pickup.
THERAPIST: The two of you going (ph)?
CLIENT: Yeah. It's going to be a short trip. There's just going to be (inaudible at 34:38).
THERAPIST: When's that?
CLIENT: February, the Super Bowl weekend. The party is the day of the Super Bowl. I hope it's not during the Super Bowl. It would be funny if my team were playing the 49ers in the Super Bowl. Most of my cousins and uncle aren't into football or whatever but my cousin married a woman who's really into ","P1-N400F71":"sports. So I need (ph) to go to a bar with her and watch the game.
THERAPIST: And Ian (sp?)?
CLIENT: No, I'd leave Ian (sp?) with the babysitter.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 35:28).
CLIENT: I know he would be sorely disappointed that he wasn't invited to watch the Super Bowl.
THERAPIST: How did he like the game?
CLIENT: He had a blast. I don't think he really had much of a concept of what was going on on the field but he had half a foot long, so he had six inches of a foot long. I had 18. (laughter)
THERAPIST: Is that a hot dog?
CLIENT: Yeah. He ordered a ice cream in a helmet. He thought they were going to give him a Patriots helmet but they gave him a Dolphins helmet. It was 10 bucks. And it was just, like, more ice cream than a human really should consume, you know. It really should be split and he ate the whole thing. I'm ","P1-N401071":"thinking I'm getting ice cream. He ate the whole thing. And then he got cotton candy.
THERAPIST: (laughter)
CLIENT: He ate so much sugar when we went we went over to Lee's to, you know, hang out. They had a little candy machine and Ian (sp?) kept taking it. Half the time I'm telling him no, half the time I'm telling him it's OK, and half the time he's not even listening to me and doing it. And so, he was ","P1-N4010B1":"like this was before Santa's Forest. He was just bouncing. In the car, he's just going nuts, howling and punching Evan and just, you know, being crazy. And so when we got to Santa's Forest, "Where's the bumper cars? Where the bumper cars? Where's the bumper cars?" And of course he wants to play every ","P1-N4010B2":"game, you know. They see the kid. They see me saying no to the kid so they [come up with something] (ph). "Hey, come on, let's play. Everybody's a winner," you know. "There's four of you, one of you is going to win." And I saw they had the soccer ball thing on the way in, where you kick over some pigs, ","P1-N4010B3":"like it's angry birds. And so I was thinking about it and I'm like, "Eh, you know, he likes soccer. I'll tell him we'll (inaudible at 37:31) one game we'll play and that'll keep him from nagging me."
THERAPIST: Twenty-five bucks, 50 bucks. (inaudible at 38:50)
CLIENT: So now I'm like, the thing I didn't plan on is like, you know, he's going to want to kick the soccer ball every year. And how do I tell him, "You can't do it this year." "Well, you let me do it last year." You know, I [really have to say] (ph), I go, "Listen, OK. Here's your five bucks. I'm ","P1-N401111":"going to walk away and that's it. You get five bucks to do what you can do in the five bucks. You know, that's it." Or hopefully the game is just (ph) in October before they open up the Santa's Forest. We've gone, like, three years in a row, four years in a row. Because one year I came down for Thanksgiving ","P1-N401112":"with him (ph). This is the first year he really went on rides though, like the little kid rollercoaster, the big slide.
THERAPIST: Because if there's an issue it (inaudible at 40:47)?
CLIENT: Yeah. But that's the part about me, is that I just say no. [I have] (ph) made people cry at the table. Buyers cry, pregnant women, you know, with the truck outside the house on a Friday afternoon. Sorry, you know. We leave the decision up to the client and the pregnant one, the clients had been ","P1-N401171":"burned on something like that before. I'm not sure exactly what happened but they were like under no circumstances are [we going to] (ph). And I'm like, no, I just we were all at the table and I said, "I cannot advise my clients to let you move in this weekend, sorry." They got out of there as quick ","P1-N401172":"as possible. So I'm outside talking to the clients and this woman just rushes by in tears, bawling, crying. I think they ended up finding a way to get on record right at the last, you know, four o'clock. [00:42:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah, so they could get in there.
CLIENT: That's the thing, is they don't have a commitment yet. It's not like they have a commitment and we're just waiting for closing. They don't even have a commitment yet so it's not even like I well, how do I know you're going to be here. You're going to move in and you don't even have a mortgage ","P1-N4011B1":"commitment? You're going to back out of the deal and be living in my condo?
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: All right. You'll find out what's going on with this closing. See you on Tuesday.
THERAPIST: OK, [take care] (ph).
CLIENT: [The balance on 9\/20] (ph)...