TITLE: Client "DF", Session June 06, 2013: Client discusses memories from childhood, his childhood home, and holidays; such as, Halloween.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses memories from childhood, his childhood home, and holidays; such as, Halloween.
THERAPIST: How are you?
CLIENT: I’m alright! (inaudible phrase at 00:00:13)
THERAPIST: I do. In Aberdeen, right?
CLIENT: I told you that.
THERAPIST: Are you going to need a pen?
CLIENT: I can grab (inaudible).
THERAPIST: I’m embarrassed to say though, I don’t know much about Aberdeen. Give me the thumbnail of what kind of town.
CLIENT: Not much to know, man. Quiet little suburban town. Really white around the edges. A lot of minorities in the center of town. Very kind of “town-y.” Not a place I wanted to stay any longer than I had to, really. There’s some nice areas to it, but it’s just a quiet little ","P1-N4001D1":"center of town with businesses that open up and close down every couple months. But pretty standard (ph?), I guess. Just suburban.
THERAPIST: And socio-economically? [00:02:11]
CLIENT: I’d say predominantly middle-class. Lower middle-class around the edges getting towards east-end, Montrose, and Abroath. A little more affluent in areas but definitely not rich or anything by that stretch. Lots of little old capes and split-level houses and stuff. A nice town. PTA’s ","P1-N400211":"and stuff. People in Aberdeen seem to like Aberdeen the ones that stay there, I guess. [00:02:53]
THERAPIST: Where was the red house and then where was the other house?
CLIENT: They were on polar opposite sides of town. The “red house” was over by one school, which was over in the corner and then the other house was over by the school. The neighborhoods were broken up by what elementary school you went to. It was ineffectual because everyone went to the ","P1-N400251":"same Middle School. I think that’s why my parents waited to move, so I was going with all the same people anyways.
THERAPIST: Where does she live now?
CLIENT: She lives in Westhill now.
THERAPIST: Westhill, and your Dad...
CLIENT: Gainesbury (sp?)
THERAPIST: That’s right. Inverurie. (sp?)
CLIENT: So, then we moved to this much bigger house. I guess it was probably in the 90’s, when everyone had all this money and everything. A house that was absurdly big for three people. By the time my Dad moved out it was just stupidly big for two people, particularly given all the upkeep and stuff. [00:04:45]
THERAPIST: 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th...
CLIENT: 9th, and then that summer. I guess, I think even if I went back and looked at it-
THERAPIST: Summer of ‘93 is when they split up.
CLIENT: Yeah, after freshman year. But, I guess, as I kind of explained to you, the extent (sp?) towards that kind of began quickly (ph). And I think for all intents and purposes, my Dad kind of didn’t live really there. You know, if he was out – [00:05:40]
THERAPIST: Those were the years he was in law school?
CLIENT: Yeah, in law school or doing whatever he was...He just was very much not living there, at least for how my memory serves it. And I had gone back, sometimes like if I was at Will’s house or something, or if I had to go through Aberdeen for some reason, sometimes I would go and I would drive ","P1-N400411":"around and see the second house that I lived in and shit, and I’d go back and kind of just drive around the neighborhood like you do sometimes. You see if they changed the garden or something.
THERAPIST: Three hours to get to the-
CLIENT: -because I had taken the commuter rail so the next commuter rail back into Boston was three hours. There’s no tier (ph), you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: The red house?
CLIENT: Yeah. It’s not red anymore I learned the other day which was really weird to see. I walked all the way over there and right onto the street. I really don’t know the last time I would have even (inaudible phrase at 00:08:44).
THERAPIST: What came up? What came up for you?
CLIENT: I was walking up the street and it was weird. Because it literally, like the way in movies you see someone walking. Like someone in a movie was doing exactly what I was doing and you’d be seeing the movie from their vantage point. And then these little mirages were sort of suddenly (ph) ","P1-N400591":"happening when they’d (ph) walk by a bush or something happened, or like on this corner, they had a memory or something. Something close to that started happening. I remembered the time I was out on my bike with my mom and dad and I was really young, and we were getting close to the house and ","P1-N400592":"my Mom started running and racing me when I was on my bike. [00:12:32]
THERAPIST: Why did it seem bizarre to you? Or what was it that seemed bizarre?
CLIENT: What seemed bizarre to me was that I think I just said, “Oh, I’ll go for a walk through the old neighborhood.” You know, just kind of go for a walk through the town square to kill the time or something, but I guess the discrepancy between how (ph) uncomfortable I felt when ","P1-N4005F1":"I got there. I didn’t really think it was going to be that weird. But it was just really, really, really strange.
THERAPIST: It was strange how uncomfortable it was? [00:13:59]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Would bring up a lot of -
CLIENT: And I imagined talking about it here when I was doing it. It (inaudible phrase at 00:14:13).
THERAPIST: So like the house is on a hill on the plot of land so you can look up at it. It seemed farther than that.
CLIENT: Oh, yeah. If you’re on the street, then it’s a big hill and the house is up there with a driveway up it and then there’s a cul-de-sac and then there’s some woods on the end of it with some trails and stuff.
THERAPIST: On the end of the road?
CLIENT: Yeah, right on the bell of the cul-de-sac.
THERAPIST: And you’re where on the cul-de-sac?
CLIENT: I’m not the last the cul-de-sac is a street with houses on each side of it and then the houses stop and it’s kind of like a bell and there’s just woods. There’s trails. Some of them were even paved by the town to walk through and stuff.
THERAPIST: But there’s no houses on that cul-de-sac? [00:15:48]
CLIENT: No, not once you get to the bell. But there’s this big rock where I remember When I was young I was really scared of the dark. I never liked to go down to the basement. [It sucks.] (ph) [00:16:05] You have to go to the other side of the basement to turn the light on. You have to be in ","P1-N400791":"the dark for a few seconds. I never liked to do it.
THERAPIST: You have these memories, the one with your mother, it sounds like warm memories.
CLIENT: They were.
THERAPIST: [I don’t know how you could...] (ph) [00:17:15]
CLIENT: Yeah, they were memories of nice things, but which were uncomfortable to arise. They were all very nice. They were all great things. [00:17:34]
THERAPIST: What an interesting fantasy that it was going to be decaying.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That it took that shape in your fantasy.
CLIENT: It’s not even like I have a fantasy of that. I realize that I thought that in reaction to how surprised I was that everything was really nice. I wouldn’t even have probably described it like that, if you asked me what that street was like beforehand.
THERAPIST: It was unconscious. [00:19:32]
CLIENT: Yeah, I suppose. But not all of it was when I got off the street, actually, I remember I went by a couple places that brought up things that were not super happy. The elementary school was kind of close to there. Just like a 10 minute walk through these very quiet kind of -
THERAPIST: North? Is that what it was?
CLIENT: Yeah, it used to be called one way. It’s called something else now, after the principal who retired.
THERAPIST: Doss? [00:20:20]
CLIENT: Named after the principal when he left. They named it after him.
THERAPIST: You were on your way back?
CLIENT: I was walking home and when I got to the house she was on the lawn looking at me like that. And I remember being not even annoyed in a childish way like, “Mom, I’m fine.” Not even like that. But me I was really young but I remember feeling like, “Oh God. My mom was ","P1-N400A31":"worrying about me.” Like, oh man. I felt like I was making my mom my mom was upset and I felt like I had something to do with it or something.
THERAPIST: She was anxious.
CLIENT: I don’t know if I thought any of that through, but I just didn’t like the way that that played out. [00:22:10]
THERAPIST: So you not liking that kind of feeling that you had of her being there waiting.
CLIENT: And me doing it. Me hurting (sp?) her.
THERAPIST: And that being because of you? [00:22:22]
CLIENT: Yeah. I was surprised. I just assumed she was going to be home when I walked through the door. Oh, man (inaudible at 00:22:30) going on or something? Definitely (ph) the other moms weren’t doing that. Like my mom’s so worried. I don’t know.
THERAPIST: Well, you wanted to just take her home. [00:27:31]
CLIENT: I wanted to give her a hug or something. It was weird. Weird because it’s something I can relate to, like feeling now, like when I see my mom sick and stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah. There’s something about the way she’s sick. I mean that in terms of your sense of the aloneness and isolation.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah. (16 second pause) I just remember that night. I remember just -
THERAPIST: It sounds very sad. [00:28:34]
CLIENT: Yeah, I was sad, but I was angry, too. I wasn’t like head-down. I wanted to punch someone or I wanted to I felt like I was breaking out of my skin. It was a very kind of pulse-increasing, sadness, anger, etc. It’s not that sadness makes me want to just go to sleep and get in bed...
THERAPIST: You were angry at the parents.
CLIENT: I don’t know what I was angry at. I think I was, but that doesn’t encapsulate it. I was just angry – stupid stars or something. I don’t know.
THERAPIST: Ah-hah! Yeah, the stars.
CLIENT: It’s just that the cosmos, or God, or something. Nothing in front of me, per se. [00:29:38]
THERAPIST: It was gone. I hear that it was almost like a state (ph) change.
CLIENT: It just turned off.
THERAPIST: It turned off. All that feeling?
CLIENT: Even my immediate recollection, that I just kind of...right there.
THERAPIST: The whole thing?
CLIENT: Yeah. It tied back. Click “X”.
THERAPIST: Close document; get on through.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Out.
CLIENT: Yeah, and it just surprised me because I literally, for a moment there, had almost forgot what I did. For a second I had to re-remember what I did. [00:32:47]
THERAPIST: But that wasn’t part of the narrative of the day.
CLIENT: Yeah, it was really, really, really bizarre. I didn’t talk to my parents about it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, or Laney, huh?
CLIENT: I ended up mentioning it to her the next day as I was reflecting on the fact that I didn’t even mention it to her. I was reflecting on the fact that I came home and I was like, “I (inaudible) to the Dentist, kind of walked around, looked for a place to eat, took the train home.”
THERAPIST: And then it dawned on you when I was talking about all of this [00:33:46]
CLIENT: And I was like, “No, I actually did something that was a [big deal] (ph).
THERAPIST: Tremendous significance. Something in your mind had kind of clicked that off, like you said, “I hit the X button and it was gone.”
CLIENT: And in the same way when I was walking there. When I go to my parents’ house now, two days before hand I’m bracing myself for like, “Oh, God, it’s going to be uncomfortable.” You know it’s (inaudible at 00:34:25). Literally I walked onto Ewing (sp?) drive ","P1-N400F91":"and I walked into a bubble and I just left (ph) it. I don’t know. I don’t even know how to explain it. I found it odd how disassociated I was able to feel from the (inaudible at 00:34:54). I went from nothing to very, very kind of deep and pervasive that just not like... [00:35:04]
THERAPIST: Kind of like a haunted house ride? Once the ride’s over it’s no longer...(inaudible).
CLIENT: Yeah, it’s pretty easy to not remember any of those things.
THERAPIST: It’s its own unique world on its own.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Recount (ph) the dream.
CLIENT: It felt very much like a dream in a way. It really did. It felt very much like the dude in “It’s a Wonderful Life.” Wander (ph) through these scenes, wanting to just remain anonymous and I didn’t. I made a very conscious decision to just not talk to my neighbors.
THERAPIST: Oh, you mean like Jimmy Stewart’s third person (ph) and he’s watching himself. [00:36:04]
CLIENT: Like [that’s what I was] (ph) of doing and I was looking at or imagining these scenes of me and stuff.
THERAPIST: I was just thinking about how much that time just meets you and maybe the meaning of it all is the reason why the power of it is in some ways is part of it being sequestered (ph) in that area.
CLIENT: I assumed as much.
THERAPIST: There’s a lot there. Some joy. It’s a mix of joy and sorrow and anger. It’s really a mix of (inaudible). [00:37:01]
CLIENT: It was all [in how] (ph) I remembered stuff like that thing about Halloween. I almost feel like that’s easier for me to talk about. It fits a frame of experience that I’m more familiar with. My mom was upset. It drove me crazy. I was really bothered by it. I don’t know. I feel, ","P1-N401111":"even just thinking about that, I feel like I spoke about that a lot longer with you even. I get that. I think one of the things that really irked me about it was even with the nice things I had the same I kind of pushed back at it or reacted to it in the same way as these things that make sense to ","P1-N401112":"me that I would (ph) be bothered by. That makes sense to me why that would really upset me at the time and why I don’t like to think about it. [00:38:11]
THERAPIST: It’s a nice memory.
CLIENT: Yeah, in a way. It was a nice experience when I had it.
THERAPIST: Nice experience. A complicated memory.
CLIENT: Yeah, a complicated memory of a nice occurrence. (10 second pause) The nice things like me and my mom and my dad, how we went for a walk, and me on my bike and having fun. That’s a lot. It’s just a lot more uncomfortable because it just makes it hard for me to feel like I can know ","P1-N4011B1":"what to do with something that I already feel like I don’t really know what to do with. That was one of the things that surprised me a little bit. [00:39:53]
THERAPIST: Those were good times.
CLIENT: Yeah, those were the times I was really happy. That’s the way to put it. Not that they were good memories, they were the times when I’m doing that “It’s a Wonderful Life” thing and I’m looking at myself. I’m happy. That’s what connects those. It’s ","P1-N401211":"almost like I’m looking at myself like, “Oh, geez. You don’t know what’s coming,” or something. [00:40:54]
THERAPIST: It seems to me like it’s somewhat brings up “Great Expectations” and the woman at the house who does that presumably because she wants to keep things the same. Hold on to something.
CLIENT: Well, Jesus, right? What is that (ph)? There was a party, right, if I remember the book. Was there a wedding? I don’t remember but she had a big dress on. Nothing about it moves from the same. It’s just kind of stagnated (ph). [00:41:46]
THERAPIST: Holding on to that and in doing so there’s something about that [love decaying] (ph) and [another way] (ph).
CLIENT: It’s insane. It’s irrational. It’s disconnected from reality. That woman is delusional in the plot because she’s so -
THERAPIST: She’s trying to keep something alive. [00:42:19]
CLIENT: Stepping in and out of that really felt like falling asleep and waking up in the same way as sometimes you have a dream you remember it a day later. A day later I was like, “This is what I did yesterday, Laney.” It’s there. It’s not there. You don’t know what you’re ","P1-N4012F1":"going to dream about until the second before you fall asleep. You don’t even know what’s going to be in front of you or something. [00:43:30]
THERAPIST: It makes me think of the movie “Mud.” Have you heard of it? It just came out and Matthew McConaughey (sp?) is in it. It’s a story about two boys who live in Louisiana or Arkansas in the bayou or something. They’re these two kids who like to go out and explore and they ","P1-N401311":"stumble upon Matthew McConaughey (sp?) on this island. Turns out he’s on the run and you find out, as the story goes on, that he’s killed Reese Witherspoon is his girlfriend who ‘s his kind of on again, off again girlfriend and he’s killed a boyfriend that she took up with, ","P1-N401312":"or a guy that she was dating because the boyfriend was abusing Reese Witherspoon so Matthew McConaughey kills him. [00:44:51]
CLIENT: Real quickly. I feel like I understand this character you’ve just described extremely well but I’m [less certain on] (ph) your speculation about how it parallels with...
THERAPIST: With yours?
CLIENT: I guess I just want to push you. I mean, I could probably go multiple ways thinking but I’m curious what you’re...
THERAPIST: I was thinking about the trauma of divorce and what it meant to you.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And something about Well [it’s talking] (ph) about trying to keep something alive that to you felt like, well it’s too traumatic (ph) to say that something that felt like kind of died. [00:47:23]
CLIENT: It’s funny that you put it this way. Just trying to elaborate on it and try to explain to you the way I think about it just comparing it to that. That scene is different to me because, yes I feel like I’m trying to put boundaries around that neighborhood and those memories and some ","P1-N401431":"of that stuff and I’m trying to contain them, but not in a way that you try to catch a firefly in a jar so you can look at it and marvel at it and put it in a box so you can push it under your bed and not have to think about it. In my mind, that’s the way that I think about it. [00:48:17]
THERAPIST: The Mud story is like -
CLIENT: Mine.
THERAPIST: Oh, your story.
CLIENT: Me. I feel like not like, “Oh, my God, I love this. This is going to die. I need to protect it.” It’s more like, “This is nice, but this is really...” I would be much happier just eliminating this from what I have to look at. Pretend it’s not there. It’s ","P1-N4014B1":"just complicated. That’s just to think about, just the thought about how I was feeling about it. I didn’t want to preserve. I wanted to (inaudible phrase at 00:49:01) so I could shoot it into space. Maybe those people (ph) aren’t necessarily proposing (inaudible). [00:49:15]
THERAPIST: Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hmmm...
CLIENT: It’s a good movie?
THERAPIST: Mud? It’s a great movie. No, like the other thing, that element I think it came to mind because something about some different meaning of your It’s just seeing that movie, I think the power of the parents being in love and together and when it goes away what it can mean to ","P1-N401511":"a child. There’s any number of ways to react to that. This kid wants to make sure it’s still alive somewhere and tries to recreate it and stuff. [00:50:20]
CLIENT: I agree with you that the distinction between the two, the importance of that distinction and of love not being and then love being is a divide (ph) that...definitely on that walk I felt doing something pretty strongly and demanded (ph) my attention or something in a similar way, like what you’re ","P1-N401531":"talking about.
THERAPIST: What’s your other side of the (inaudible)?
CLIENT: I didn’t see me as doing the same thing in reaction to that. [00:51:09]
THERAPIST: No, right.
CLIENT: (inaudible phrase at 00:51:12) That sounds like a kid that is really upset about his parents splitting up. That doesn’t seem like what I have thought about myself.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah.
CLIENT: Thank you. Thank you.
THERAPIST: That’s a hell of a day.
CLIENT: Yeah. It was like 15 minutes.
THERAPIST: Is that right? God, that’s not a long walk. Well, time is funny. Sounds like it’s longer.
CLIENT: Well, we talked about a lot.
THERAPIST: I will see you on Monday. Thank you very much.