TITLE: Client "Ma", Session April 08, 2014: Client discusses meeting up with her friend and how it made her miss school and the topics she used to study. Client discusses cleaning out her closet and her thoughts on daydreams.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses meeting up with her friend and how it made her miss school and the topics she used to study. Client discusses cleaning out her closet and her thoughts on daydreams.
THERAPIST: Hi.
CLIENT: Hi. Well it turned out the meeting with Geoffrey was really good. Yes, he’s just a really good person and pretty much sort of more pragmatic in a cold-hearted way. I’m really glad I’m not in his shoes. He passed his exams, which is awesome, and now he’s trying to get ","P1-N4000D1":"a dissertation prospectus up and running and he’s basically just doing that without any consultation or advice. And [inaudible at 00:01:01] his advisor is on sabbatical this year and is going to come back for a year and maybe a semester next year and then he’s going to retire. But they don’t ","P1-N4000D2":"know when and whether that position is going to be replaced. [00:01:19]
THERAPIST: I see, sure. It’s as though you’re kind of keyed up.
CLIENT: Yes. It’s weird. Just a little bit, not a whole lot. I did end up going back to sleep. [00:12:14]
THERAPIST: What? [00:13:08]
CLIENT: I just said it’ll be good; this week will be fine. [Pause] So last night I stayed up late because I started typing up the minutes from a meeting from church. And I volunteered to be the scribe or the person who takes notes. It’s really easy to take notes; typing up the notes is the ","P1-N400311":"pain in the ass probably because previous people have flushed them out into complete sentences and I don’t want to do that. And then I, yes. But so it took me a long time to write those up. And then I couldn’t get to sleep. [00:15:59]
THERAPIST: There is something that’s very [inaudible at 00:24:01]. It can be hard to know what to say or have access to or talk about the things that matter particularly when you’re feeling more okay. [00:24:34]
CLIENT: Yes. It sort of feels like I have the option of being more guarded so of course I’m going to take that. Yes, I have some sort of feeling it’s maybe not what you’re looking for, which is I’m laughing because as I say it I’m thinking yes, that’s a problem Tanya. [00:25:17]
THERAPIST: Wait, what? I’m not sure -
CLIENT: I guess -
THERAPIST: As far as I’m concerned you’re supposed to be different from that?
CLIENT: Yes I guess so. I don’t know. Maybe it’s something about if there’s not something that clearly needs to be fixed than I don’t have a place here or I would not be welcomed. [00:26:03]
THERAPIST: Well it seems to be more a struggle or at least more two-sided seems to me than your simply being guarded. I mean you have said a bunch of stuff including the stuff about the stories and that you haven’t said that to anyone and thinking of people you find soothing. [00:27:12]
CLIENT: Yes. I guess I’m sort of worried to see what you’re going to do with that. That was the best thing in my life for a while. And now it’s the best part of the day. [00:28:11]
THERAPIST: Telling yourself stories where you’re going?
CLIENT: Sort of like they’re reading all the time. And then I didn’t ever want to stop reading. Yes partly in a good way and partly in a bad way. Bad way because I didn’t want to be in my life but also I really liked the stories I was reading; that was really good. [00:29:36]
THERAPIST: I wonder if they were, I guess I’m thinking about them as daydreams? And that in that way they were one of the few things in the day that felt like it was for you? Or maybe it is still.
CLIENT: Mark gave a sermon a while back about, he was talking about his daydreams as a kid and he was talking about the Secret Life of Walter Mitty, which is this great story. And he was saying that in his daydreams he was always the center of attention and other people didn’t matter very much. ","P1-N4005B1":"Talking about that like coming to a better in his daydreams he was a great humanitarian but other people didn’t actually matter. He said so maybe helping people is totally different from that. [00:31:50]
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:34:23]. [Pause] I guess they were safe too.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes, I always knew what was going to happen. [Pause] Shared the same books over and over again. I like knowing what’s going to happen. [00:35:34]
THERAPIST: And maybe in a way you were making yourself aware of what you were missing, like companionship and predictability. What I have in mind is you’re hungry, so hungry, and dreaming of cake or a sandwich.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:38:11]
CLIENT: Yes. I used to always imagine that I’d be in perilous situations and imagine that that wouldn’t hurt me. It’s sort of exaggerated versions of things that actually did hurt me a lot, like the theft. I don’t know [00:40:03]
THERAPIST: Well it’s nice to feel safe. [00:41:29]
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: We should finish up for now. [00:43:52]