TITLE: Client "B", Session January 22, 2014: Client discusses actually enjoying spending time with friends, and work projects.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses actually enjoying spending time with friends, and work projects.
CLIENT: I’ve been having even more difficulty than usual getting out of bed and leaving the house. I guess it’s not mornings because I had this trouble Friday evening also after work. I worked from home Friday because there was an event on the waterfront I wanted to get to at 5:30 and I ","P1-N4000B1":"thought if I don’t have to commute all the way out to 495 and back.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I was totally unproductive for work. I got literally nothing done on Friday. It was pretty awful. And then I felt bad about myself and told myself well I can’t leave for this event I want to go to until I do something useful for work.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so I just stalled and stalled and stalled and I wasn’t actually getting anything done for work. If I had actually been in the flow it would have been fine but I was just making myself miserable until a friend of mine who was at the event texted me and was like, ‘(unclear)’s ","P1-N400131":"here. I want to see you. Please come out.’ I finally showed up at 8. I missed the start of some things I wanted to see.
THERAPIST: (Sneezes twice).
CLIENT: Bless you.
THERAPIST: Thank you.
CLIENT: I missed last Wednesday largely because I just couldn’t get myself out of bed. I’m sorry. I should have let you know what was going on. I just felt so ashamed and miserable that I couldn’t make it.
THERAPIST: That’s (unclear) Thursday.
CLIENT: That’s okay. Things happen. Hope everything was okay.
THERAPIST: Everything’s fine. Sure.
CLIENT: Yeah, I ended up working from home Wednesday because I didn’t get out of bed until 10:30 and that’s usually when I arrive at the office. So I was like yeah, I’m just going to work from home today and dialed in my 11 a.m. meeting because there was no way I was going to make ","P1-N400251":"it. (Pause) Yeah, I don’t know.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean I sort of am in a way taking what you’re saying, partly expressive of the shame you feel about – that’s one thing that’s this issue in general coming from difficulty getting out or just getting out – and in part of – help!
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: I’m late today because I didn’t get out of bed when my alarm went off. I was just like (makes noise), even though I did go to bed at a reasonable hour last night and I took Benadryl to help me sleep which I probably shouldn’t be doing that with a physician’s supervision ","P1-N4002F1":"but it was something that my last psychiatrist suggested I should try because she really didn’t like prescribing prescription sleeping aids. She thought Benadryl was safer which I don’t know. Different people have different opinions on that.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So I don’t know.
CLIENT: This past weekend was a big science fiction event at the waterfront that I was talking about a few minutes ago.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And I wasn’t going to go because it always conflicts with Mystery Hunt. Mystery Hunt is a big event of the (unclear) every year for like 12, 13 years. Like the year I was on my honeymoon and still had a team and logged in for the hunt from Hawaii like (unclear). (Laughs) [0:05:33]
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: But yeah, the team I usually hunt with has – a lot of the people I knew have stopped hunting or have departed for other teams and my team is now mostly undergrads who I don’t know and it wasn’t really fun at all last year. I was pretty miserable for all of hunt last year. No, ","P1-N4003F1":"I’m lying. I’m sorry. Last year I was on silent retreat during hunt because I screwed up planning. The year before that was the year I was miserable during hunt. So yeah I was miserable in 2012 and 2013 I just didn’t – that was just a legitimate like mistake when I was planning ","P1-N4003F2":"my trip. But I had a lot of friends coming in from out of town who were going to be at an event so I decided to give it a try even though like I hated it the first time I went back in like 2001. Yeah, I went with Ricky, who I was not dating at the time. Phil is the big horrible ex who raped me. But ","P1-N4003F3":"yeah, I hated Arisia the last time I went. I think in hindsight, in large part, because Phil and his friends are just horrible human beings.
THERAPIST: You mean, in particular, to hang around with them instead of people you don’t see as often?
CLIENT: Yes. I’m like, part of it is my friends from out of town are – this is actually relevant – are all people of color and most of them are writers and so the programming committee put them on panels and things that were very explicitly race related like how to write the other ","P1-N400451":"without being racist or why is cultural appropriation wrong? Or, let’s talk about sexism and harassment and (unclear) and how to end it. And those are all really very heavy topics that I’m super-burnt out on. I didn’t sign up for any programming at the event because when I do sign ","P1-N400452":"up for programming at Coms (sp?) I do get put on those panels too regardless of what I actually express interest in and on one hand they’re important conversations and usually I’m willing to have them and consider it a service to the community to do so.
THERAPIST: Cozy.
CLIENT: It was. It was very nice. I was shockingly not awkward. I was afraid I would feel like a fifth wheel like when they invited me to have brunch with them Saturday morning I thought, well I’ll do breakfast with them. It will probably be awkward and then I’ll disappear and find (unclear), ","P1-N4004F1":"Iris, Genevieve or Elsie to hang out with. But it wasn’t. They were remarkably gracious in spite of the fact that they have decades, literally, of history with each other (unclear). [0:11:05]
THERAPIST: You mean because you didn’t (unclear) your usual panel?
CLIENT: Well, I ended up attending all of Lucy’s panels and about half of Tracey’s panels. I mean, those four were often on the same panels. So I saw all of them on all the panels but mostly I was selecting for when there was a conflict on the one Lucy was on because she is incredibly smart. ","P1-N400551":"But it was a very different type of panel that I usually do. So they were on a bunch of the like lit crit panels and like let’s compare such and such contemporary author to James Joyce and do like a literary analysis comparing contrasts or you know, (unclear) of Greek myth in contemporary science ","P1-N400552":"fiction and like so many of the classicists, Matilda’s background is she’s medieval European historian – not Matilda, I’m sorry – Tracey. They just have a completely different background like a personal and academic, so you know, I typically will go to the panels about ","P1-N400553":"race and identity and anti-oppression because those are those are the ones I get put on.
THERAPIST: Like did saying that bring you up short in some way?
CLIENT: I don’t know. I apparently did because I’ve stopped talking.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I was – are you familiar with the Yuletide fan fic writing exchange?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So Yuletide happens every year.
CLIENT: Around Christmas.
THERAPIST: Around Christmas, yes. It’s an exchange where people fan fic for each other so you sign off what things you can write, what things you want to read and then you’re matched with someone?
CLIENT: I see.
THERAPIST: So it’s a circular exchange – A writes for B who writes for C and so on.
CLIENT: Like Secret Santa.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Except for fan fiction for obscure works, so not Star Trek or Harry Potter.
CLIENT: So if someone requested Lord Byron fan fiction.
THERAPIST: Lord Byron, like the poet?
CLIENT: Yes. And so there actually was a ridiculous amount of Lord Byron fan fic this year. I don’t know why. These things go in waves I guess. But there was one in particular that focused on Polidori who was Byron’s physician and you know, Byron ran with a crowd of writers and poets, obviously. ","P1-N400791":"And they were all remarkably talented. Like he was friends with Shelley. Polidori was his physician who traveled with him because he had (cross talk).
THERAPIST: Byron.
CLIENT: Yeah. He had to leave England because he was about to be thrown in, not jail, but wherever they put landed gentry who have crossed or violated their sexual codes because he slept with a bunch of married women and was accused of having been homosexual which was of course (unclear), I doubt at ","P1-N4007D1":"the time, which was how he wound up in Italy. But anyway they would do these readings and like dramatic presentations of plays they wrote and poor Polidori just desperately wanted to be a writer and would read utterly atrocious, like I’ve seen a couple of samples of Polidori’s work. It’s ","P1-N4007D2":"really bad.
THERAPIST: (Unclear) Byron and Shelley. [0:17:45]
CLIENT: Which is a little bit how I feel when I hang out with Lucy and Grey (unclear). And Grey who is, I don’t know how to describe Grey except that she’s very Grey. She’s very eccentric but her writing is amazing. She’s won several fairly big awards in the field. So yeah. And ","P1-N400811":"then there’s me.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (Unclear). [0:18:18]
THERAPIST: Yeah. Except, you know, I don’t even have a medical degree to recommend me.
CLIENT: So at some point over the weekend when we were all punch drunk from sleep deprivation I challenged Lucy to write a poem about the drowning of the doves which there’s this font, The Doves that is utterly beautiful. It was created in the 19th Century and the person who designed it and cast ","P1-N4008B1":"it and used it in his press ended up throwing it all in the Thames because of an argument with his business partner. And that’s very sad that (unclear) is lost forever. [0:19:16]
THERAPIST: About Medusa.
CLIENT: I don’t know if I can because she’s a classicist.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: She has a Ph.D. in Greek mythology for God’s sake. Like, there is nothing that I could possibly say that I would be new or groundbreaking about Medusa. I’d probably get it wrong because the version of the Medusa story that I know is the one from my 8th grade literature textbook which ","P1-N400951":"is probably sanitized and not – I don’t know.
THERAPIST: And that’s really what matters in poems – historical accuracy and scholarly erudition.
CLIENT: Well, yes. In some sense. There’s actually a poem I wrote that the editor of Mythic Delirium bought and it’s going to come out in August. But I made significant and substantial changes to it after running it by a friend who is a scholar of the period I was writing about because (whispers). ","P1-N4009B1":"I had done my reading but I still got it wrong because Wikipedia is not factually scholarship.
THERAPIST: As it turns out.
CLIENT: As it turns out.
THERAPIST: Though you’re like being fairly self-critical, you’re not entirely managing to convince me that you enjoy that.
CLIENT: I do enjoy it. But it is also fraught with anxiety. I wish it wasn’t. I would enjoy it more if it weren’t.
THERAPIST: I’m thinking I wonder if it would be easier to get out of bed for you if you were getting out of bed to do stuff more like that.
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: I’m not like suggesting career changes.
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: I guess what I have in mind is that I meant though I imagine you chalk a lot of it up to neurosis and you’re just being “bad”, maybe there are other things you aren’t enjoying about your work now in ways you are enjoying (unclear) now which it seems feel (unclear) ","P1-N400B31":"people. Again, my point isn’t that you’re in the wrong profession or you (unclear) be doing something else, it’s that I could imagine that you would tend to see your own failures or anxiety, failings and anxieties more so than how much you happen to be enjoying what you’re doing ","P1-N400B32":"or what is or isn’t doing for you as sort of more than maintaining and doing something else that could be relevant. [0:25:42]
CLIENT: I mean right now the issue with work is not, we have a lot of open-ended questions. We’re in the early stages of a new project and a lot of things aren’t defined and so there aren’t –
THERAPIST: You’d be doing a lot of reading and stuff like that.
CLIENT: And it’s hard to stay focused on that so I actually have a task that I was supposed to have completed last Friday but I didn’t. Actually, I took Monday off. So it’s okay that I got nothing done Monday because that was a vacation day. And yesterday I tried to work on this project ","P1-N400BB1":"that should have been done Friday and I did not get any traction on it. But it’s an exploratory question like given – so there are these two designs that other teams in Dallas and Oregon are working on and we’re going to work on the successor to that. But the first two designs – ","P1-N400BB2":"I’m just going to tell you their code names because it’s easier. One is called K12 and the other is called Zen. And I’m working on Tao. T-A-O.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So K23 and Zen are also in early stages. Like so, look at K12, look at Zen. Look at their indirect target predictor. Figure out how they work and then if we make these changes to their target predictor, how much more power will that cost. And then I have like five questions of that style to ","P1-N400BF1":"answer. And it’s just – I don’t know enough to understand how Zen and K12s work and they’re actually coded. We don’t even have code for ours and I don’t know – so I could make a bunch of assumptions and just go and write some code that will scrape the metrics ","P1-N400BF2":"I need from their results database. But I won’t know if my answer is right and there is no way to check if my answer is right and I’m terrified that it will be wrong and that I will look stupid. Which doesn’t help me because not doing is also making me look bad.
THERAPIST: I see. We’re going to stop for now.
CLIENT: Yeah.