TITLE: Client "B", Session April 11, 2013: Client discusses friendships and wanting others to confirm that she has good judgment.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses friendships and wanting others to confirm that she has good judgment.
THERAPIST: Morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. I don’t really have anything to talk about this morning. I don’t know. (Pause)
THERAPIST: I don’t know if you are but I would kind of feel annoyed I’m so late.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: No. Okay. (Pause)
CLIENT: It gave me time to catch up on twitter out in the waiting room. Actually no, I was lying. I have a whole list of things to talk about. So this yarn store business. Did I tell you about it? So Caitlin pulled out.
THERAPIST: It was you and Daria, and Caitlin and Lark.
CLIENT: Caitlin pulled out because she got a job that she applied for months ago, a start-up publishing company. Their senior editor, and she just does not have time for anything else. I realized that, like I had a moment of panic when I had read her e-mail saying she was pulling out.
THERAPIST: I see. (Pause from [00:03:38] to [00:03:52])
CLIENT: I don’t know. It was clearly the right decision. I feel it was the right decision. People whose advice I respect told me it was the right decision, but I still feel guilty and that’s deeply upsetting to me. Like, is it normal to feel guilty over things that are the right thing to ","P1-N400271":"do? It is? Okay. It’s not pleasant. (Pause)
THERAPIST: It is normal. It can also involve anxiety neuroses, all sorts of stuff. But many people, most people, I mean,
CLIENT: Maybe a little bit. (Pause from [00:05:38] to [00:08:23])
THERAPIST: If I had to guess, if I’m not reassuring, I imagine that it feels like, I’m kind of being neglectful, or that I don’t care that you are anxious. Sort of like, don’t really matter to me.
CLIENT: I think that I recognize that you’re not being reassuring because it’s for my own good.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I’m sure at some point will you see it that way.
CLIENT: I don’t think I ascribed motivations. (inaudible) just stubbornness maybe.
THERAPIST: (Laughter) (Pause from [00:09:05] to [00:09:27]) Stubbornness in that? (Pause) I’m like digging my heels in?
CLIENT: A little bit. Maybe. Yeah. (Pause)
THERAPIST: About what? I know that sounds like a trivial question, but.
CLIENT: That’s the sort of thing I would do. Right? Like if I said, you know, I’m not going to do X, Y, Z. For me it would then become a matter of pride, you know? There’s no amount of pleading or cajoling that you could do that would cause me to give in and actually do X, Y, Z when ","P1-N4003D1":"I said I wouldn’t.
THERAPIST: I see. So that’s kind of where I’m coming from. Damn it, I’m not going to be reassuring. (Laughter) Just admit why you are saying wouldn’t happen. No way. (Laughter) Forget it.
CLIENT: And I mean, I understand that’s probably not what’s actually going on. But you—
THERAPIST: That’s kind of why I want to get this sorted out, you know. (Pause from [00:10:41] to [00:10:55])
CLIENT: Yeah. This week has been a, pretty terrible for you know, anxious neurotic, why aren’t they talking with me moments. So Thomas, things went really well Saturday. I think I told you that.
THERAPIST: And you (inaudible) on Sunday.
CLIENT: Yeah. I’m very much looking forward to that. But, so, I might have mentioned LiveJournal, and Thomas and I had given each other permission on LiveJournal for years and years and years. From like 2001 until like, I stopped using LiveJournal in 2010. Moved everything over to DreamWeb. And ","P1-N400491":"did not keep most of my old permissions.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Because I’m crazy.
THERAPIST: Because you’re crazy. (Pause from [00:13:04] to [00:13:22])
CLIENT: And this is very worrying for me.
THERAPIST: Yeah?
CLIENT: (Pause from [00:13:26] to [00:13:52])
THERAPIST: What comes to mind?
CLIENT: (Sighs) (Pause from [00:13:56] to [00:14:06]) What do you mean what comes to mind? Just in general or?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean I guess I’m going from the sense that you seem worried, but maybe you might have something else? I don’t know.
CLIENT: Well it’s just because, I know. Because despite the fact that I haven’t actually seen him in six years, we have friends in common you know. And I used to read his LiveJournal, and one of the things that he finds upsetting, to the point of being traumatizing in relationships is people ","P1-N400631":"who are you know, very loud about being angry. Like, people who shout or yell, or are frequently angry. That’s why he broke up with two of his recent exes. I tend to use my online journal as a place to vent and get out a lot of the anger. So that I’m not carrying it around, like all day ","P1-N400632":"with people in my life. So my online journal is very angry and shouty.
THERAPIST: I see. [00:15:09]
CLIENT: Like that’s a big source of concern. Also, as much as he says that politics don’t matter to him in choosing partners and dating. Our politics are kind of divergent. He is one of the less crazy brands of Libertarian.
THERAPIST: Really?
CLIENT: Yeah, it’s relative. And as you might have guessed, my politics are far more on the socialist side of the scale than Libertarian in many regards. And I do blog about politics and thoughts, so it’s—I’m nervous that I might have scared him off with my angry ranting and ","P1-N4006B1":"also my politics. I am also wearing a t-shirt that says, “My Marxist, feminist dialectic brings all the boys to the yard”. (Laughter) Which I find hilarious mostly because I am not a Marxist. My relationship to the word feminist is complicated. Let’s leave it at that. I don’t ","P1-N4006B2":"like calling myself a feminist for a variety of reasons. So the shirt if plenty of lies in that I don’t have a Marxist, feminist dialectic. (Laughter)
THERAPIST: But how can you resist a shirt like that. I know I’m definitely not reassuring, but I think that’s funny.
CLIENT: And it’s got you know, a silhouette of a woman giving a speech to a crowd and you know, they are all making the power fist in the air. It’s the funniest shirt ever. Which I might convince myself would be hilarious to wear the next time I meet Thomas. (Chuckle) [00:16:56]
THERAPIST: I guess. (Pause from [00:21:05] to [00:21:55]) Yeah, I guess I’m trying to put together like, you seem quite anxious and I think really want me to reassure you. And also I think really you know, like I’m letting you twist in the wind and I don’t. Back together with how you’re ","P1-N400791":"feeling with Thomas, which is kind of similarly I think you’re like twisting in the wind and you want your feelings for him and (Pause) There’s something there about how scary it is, I think in either case. To be left kind of on your own with you anxiety. I’m sure there’s a ","P1-N400792":"lot more to it than that. But there’s a some way, that sense of being abandoned (inaudible). (Pause) Is really quite not just anxious I think, but pretty disconcerting.
CLIENT: I think a lot of the time I want conformation that my judgment is sound. Like, I don’t know. It’s really hard for me to have faith in my own decision making skills. I think it was actually Monday night when I was up doing my voice lesson. That’s something, Victoria, my voice ","P1-N4007D1":"instructor has said to me on many, many occasions. Is that I need to trust myself more that at least half of my problems with technique would disappear if I just trusted myself and was less hesitant, but if I had faith in the fact that my ear is good. I can hear notes. I can produce notes. I can sing ","P1-N4007D2":"the notes that I hear and stop over thinking it and trying to think the note and consciously place the note, but trust myself. Which, with singing this is especially crap because -
THERAPIST: Pick out each note.
CLIENT: Huh?
THERAPIST: Because you can’t pick out each note.
CLIENT: Well no because I’ve spent so much time in my childhood being told that I didn’t have an ear for music.
THERAPIST: Ah! Oh. That way. Sure. Right. I know you said that to me.
CLIENT: Yeah. And then also the spiral of dancing that I’ve been doing recently, contra dancing. Well it’s a called style. The caller tells you what steps you’re going to dance. It’s similar to square dancing in that regard, but they only call from the first eight measures of ","P1-N400891":"music. And then the caller stops and lets you just dance and enjoy the music. And you have to have faith in yourself and in your dance partner and then everyone else in your set could be you know, up to thirty people, but people have learned the pattern by now and it’s [0:26:07.1]
THERAPIST: You keep doing -
CLIENT: The same -
THERAPIST: Repeating that what was called.
CLIENT: Yeah. And almost all the movements involve a great deal of spinning and moving and twirling and complicated geometric trace positions of dancer positions and all that. It’s a great dance for geeks. But it does require you to just trust that your body has learned the steps and not overthink ","P1-N400911":"it because if you start thinking, “Okay, I just did a trained butterfly and now I have to do a star, hold hands and try to think about what that means.”
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: You will completely foul the set and just let go. That’s been really, really challenging for me. Because I want to always overthink things. (Pause) Which should not come to any surprise.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But yeah, I guess the moral of the story is I have a hard time trusting myself. Regardless of what the context or the activity is.
THERAPIST: Right. (Pause from [00:27:24] to [00:27:40]) I hear that you should want to be reassured or if you’re doing something wrong if I’m not being reassuring or [0:28:00.2]
CLIENT: Well, I think you’ve made it clear that reassuring is not forth coming.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It is possibly a waste of time for me to keep trying to seek it.
THERAPIST: I mean (Pause) I don’t know. If that’s what comes out that’s what comes out. I mean -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It’s clear it’s something sort of pretty meaningful for you about it.
CLIENT: I think it would be nice to be able to make decisions on my own without constantly second guessing or seeking confirmation from friends that I did the right thing.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Sure.
CLIENT: I mean this decision about the yarn shop, which you know I’m as certain as I ever can be about decisions I’ve made. This is the right call. I was still feeling really miserable until I talk it through with two people and have them say, “No, you did the right thing.” It ","P1-N400AD1":"would be nice to just trust my judgment once in a while. I don’t know how to get there.
THERAPIST: I mean my (Pause) hunch that there’s some kind of grief underlying a lot of this. And that relates to a sense of there being things that matter with you. In other words, know you know on the level that, if things don’t work out with you and Thomas because of your politics or because ","P1-N400B11":"if it’s getting angry. Just differences and if they reflect badly on you. And my impression from you is that you might think there’s an angry part, but politics part -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That’s your father’s fucking fault. (Chuckle) But I imagine you feel quite differently. You feel it quite differently about what happened. You laughed because there is something deeply wrong with you. That’s shameful and you’re grief stricken over feeling that way ","P1-N400B51":"about yourself. And the anxiety, and a sort of wish for reassurance. (Pause) Like, you know, it’s probably a good thing. It lets you be reassured and someone else is there. But it’s like it’s also sort of the person not really quite being there with what you’re struggling with ","P1-N400B52":"in a way. Which is, a little more underlying issue that’s being (inaudible 0:32:07.4).
CLIENT: It’s really great when I can let go. Especially with dancing because it’s just so much movement and it’s so fast, and it’s so dizzying, that it’s really exhilarating when it works.
THERAPIST: It’s just a great thing.
CLIENT: Yeah. (Laughs) Being a New England style of dance contrasts far less colorful than Central American maybe.
THERAPIST: They’re from (inaudible 0:34:14.6), but I can see what you mean. You can get them confused.
CLIENT: Yeah, not New England that’s for sure. (Laughs)
THERAPIST: No, not New England. (Laughs)
CLIENT: Have I mentioned the secret poetry cabal?
THERAPIST: Yes, I think it came up on Monday.
CLIENT: I was talking to my friend Lori, who lives in Monday. We went to college together.
THERAPIST: I think I’m sorry, it’s one of it’s somebody Thomas’ connected to.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or about to be and -
CLIENT: His apartment mate’s fiancé.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was telling Lori about this story about how I met Lucy.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I said, “I interacted with her for years on the Internet and especially the secret poetry cabal mailing list.” and she said. “Wait, you weren’t joking when you said, secret poetry cabal.” and I said, “No, it’s a real thing.” She said, “There’s ","P1-N400DD1":"really a secret poetry cabal.” Anyway, I told her some of the members of the cabal and she was like, “Those are all awesome people who I’ve been wanting to get to know.” I said, “Well, I can introduce you, I’ll e-mail the list and arrange a Providence meet up. That ","P1-N400DD2":"would be easy.” So I e-mailed the list.
THERAPIST: Isn’t she in Montana?
CLIENT: She’s in town the first week of May.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: Sorry.
THERAPIST: It’s alright.
CLIENT: Her girlfriend lives in Providence.
THERAPIST: I see (inaudible 0:35:56.6)
CLIENT: I e-mailed the list and I said, “A friend of mine was embarrassedly excited about the existence of the cabal and would like to meet some of you and let’s do a Providence area meet up, plus some of us haven’t met in person.”
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Sonia and I met under hilarious unexpected circumstances that Saturday night (Laughs) and no one has replied yet. And I realize that because the last time I checked my e-mail was 7:30 in the morning and most people on this coast aren’t awake yet that hour.
THERAPIST: When did you write the e-mail?
CLIENT: One o’clock in the morning. (Laughs) But I was still terribly nervous that maybe this is some kind of social faux pas, but well, the list should not be used in this manner and huh, that’s interesting. Anyway, this is terribly wrong and bad of me. I shouldn’t have and little, ","P1-N400F51":"more of me not trusting myself to have made good decisions in the past. This is a small and frivolous example of the phenomenon, but -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I guess it’s just evidence that I don’t just do this about important things.
CLIENT: I guess it -
THERAPIST: I guess it, I would say for you is partially, but not entirely identify. But there’s a part of that it feels like I am stubborn and if or in the long-term good reasons, in the short-term I’m giving you bit of a hard time and that would be a stubbornness wrestling match.
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: And that means that you’re using this to get better, or would involve some degree of submission.
CLIENT: I don’t think I’ve ever thought about it in those terms.
THERAPIST: Rather than, for example, think that I might not be sure yet of what to say about what you said, I could be confused.
THERAPIST: Or that, (Pause) or there’s any, even if I say there aren’t any intended exactly to reassure. Well, they are intended to help with this. I mean, I know you know that in the abstract, but I don’t, but the impression is that I do say, feel like that. Maybe the issue is more ","P1-N4010D1":"of what I’m not talking right now. Saying things that are (inaudible 0:41:11.4)
CLIENT: Yeah, the things you say, sometimes I don’t understand in one moment. But hours or days later, something will click. But the long silences, it’s, I sometimes feel pressured to keep talking to fill up the silence. I don’t know if that’s what you actually want or not.
THERAPIST: (Pause) You mean like (Pause) I get the feeling; it can seem the long silences are almost something I am doing to you.
CLIENT: Yeah, a little bit. That’s a technique I use when I teach sometimes. Just pose a question and not say anything and just let the awkward tension build until a student finally says something, anything, even if it’s the wrong answer. God, just break the silence.
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: I use that a lot in Grad school. I was teaching classes. It’s sometimes the only way to force students to engage. And our context is different. You’re not an instructor and I’m not a pupil, but -
THERAPIST: Right. You’re saying, even if it made the students uncomfortable, your motivation was benign in that was to get them engaged.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And it could be that I’m trying to do something similar by treating you in the same way.
CLIENT: Yup.
THERAPIST: We can stop now. I’ll see you on Monday.
CLIENT: Yup.