TITLE: Client "B", Session March 28. 2013: Client discusses guilt, dating, self-confidence, and having consciously changed in the last 10 years.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses guilt, dating, self-confidence, and having consciously changed in the last 10 years.
THERAPIST: I’m not sure about this, but there’s a chance I will start having some hours here on Saturday mornings. And I wondered—but I’m not sure, probably around next couple of weeks or so, if you would want one of those.
CLIENT: Yes please.
THERAPIST: Ok, and instead of, or in addition of what we’ve got now?
CLIENT: I’ll have to think about that.
THERAPIST: Sure. Either would be ok, I’m just (Pause) then will keep you posted.
CLIENT: I ended up bailing out of work at about three yesterday because I wasn’t feeling well. I was feeling fine all morning and then during lunch I suddenly started feeling really nauseous and dizzy and vertigo.
THERAPIST: Oh gosh.
CLIENT: Yeah. All my classic migraine symptoms without the pain, so I don’t know what was going on with that, but I went home and slept. And now I feel terribly guilty and really anxious about some of my co-workers. Because even though it’s my boss’s policy that if you’re not ","P1-N400191":"feeling well, you should just go home. I wasn’t actually in any pain I don’t know. (Pause from [0:01:44.2] to [0:02:52.5])
THERAPIST: Yeah I understand that this seems like the part where I think, sort of, (pause) not wanting to think about how it made sense for you to go home and give that part over to me. And I’m not sure why. If it’s so I’ll reassure you, or that we can disagree about it, or because ","P1-N4001B1":"it’s not safe for you to feel.
CLIENT: I guess -
THERAPIST: I guess I’m going to go with the latter. Yeah.
CLIENT: I guess this constant fear that I’m lazy, malingering and that I was faking being sick in order to not deal with work. Which was quite challenging yesterday. And I really don’t trust my own judgment.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: Hmm?
THERAPIST: Oh I just said, “Hmm.”
CLIENT: I know there’s a lot going on this week because it’s the week before Easter. There’s been other rehearsals or stuff at church every night this week and it’s sort of wearing me down.
THERAPIST: I see, in this case.
CLIENT: In this case it really is a fact, but I can’t reliability hit that note with any kind of clarity or relevance or I can shriek it, but it doesn’t sound good.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Yeah, I’m going to trust my voice instructor on that, but.
THERAPIST: Oh gosh.
CLIENT: I didn’t know her. She was very old and has been in a nursing home for the last 12 years, but she’d been part of the congregation for her entire life. 90 years.
THERAPIST: Wow, that’s cool.
CLIENT: Yeah, the choir is going to sing at her funeral. And our choir director says this is not mandatory, you might have other plans, but I kind of feel obligated to go. Between that and the workshop and the theatre, that’s my entire Saturday and I don’t know when I’m going to prepare ","P1-N400471":"for Easter and (inaudible 0:10:26.9) how much running from event to event I’m going to ended up doing, is the thing.
THERAPIST: What’s your like, it must be exhausting. Not just, and it’s not a big deal, and a lot of other things too.
CLIENT: Right, right. I think it’s more I’m really worried that because my schedule is so overfull all week, this weekend. And going through the weekend that I’ll just end up flaking out on commitments. Not showing up or not doing things or doing a poor job. (Pause)
THERAPIST: You said I guess part of which for me is the sense that (Pause) you probably question the “T” times through today, right? The most recent one is you know Why am I not doing as much as my friends are doing? Sort of like that. Is it because I’m lazy or because they are ","P1-N400531":"superwoman. What the hell is going on here?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And (Pause) you’re really not sure, how often you do you pretend to, I realize you are kind of weighing on the side of laziness. (Pause) Another part is and I think it’s important, which I think I’m addressing the role of like other people in this. Who it seems like sometimes ","P1-N400571":"you want to sort of reassure you, but maybe not really. Or like in the choir, who were clearly being nice and trying to reassure you, but just were also wrong.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I think I’m trying to think what’s important to me like A part of this is you actually wanting to know what’s really going on.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That I’m not talking about the emotional part of, are you lazy, read bad or are they superwoman reading it’s ok and maybe it’s even cool that their superwoman. Which would be sort of better or at the least a relief.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And an important part of the thing is, you want to know. And it’s nice that your friends are being reassuring, but they’re not really saying. The one main thing is actually, you being in command of the facts and the reality of what they are. And maybe that has something to do ","P1-N400631":"with why reassurance isn’t necessarily helpful. Because in a way, even though it’s nice to be nicely treated, and certainly beats the shit out of being badly treated. (Laughing) It’s still not the same as you actually knowing how it is.
CLIENT: Right. I just have so much trouble trusting my own feelings, memories, and judgment.
THERAPIST: And other peoples.
CLIENT: Why do you say that?
THERAPIST: Because, I think you just don’t see the content of the experience of someone being reassuring as maybe their partly being informative, but mostly their just being nice.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Part of this is, every single one of these situations are today, often other times sort of involves the question of, I think in your mind, whether you’re fucking up in some major way. That reflects on you as a bad person. I wouldn’t say badly, considerably badly, but that question ","P1-N400711":"is always up for grabs. And you find it lots of places.
THERAPIST: And (Pause) I bet it’s the intense anxiety you experienced in relation to that question. That makes it hard for you to actually put your thoughts together. About what’s going on?
CLIENT: I believe that.
THERAPIST: (Pause) I can’t quite word this, well, you’ll be condemned at the pits of hell if you get this wrong, but you feel like chocolate or vanilla. What do you feel like? (Laughs) It’s like, how do you just not get so freaked out about winding up in hell. That you know it’s ","P1-N400791":"very hard to get in touch with what you’ve gone through. (Pause)
CLIENT: The other thing that’s been occupying my thoughts a lot this week is, despite all of my claims that I was going to get off of OkCupid because it’s ridiculous. I found this cute guy on OkCupid again and I read this profile that looked really interesting to me. And the person seemed ","P1-N4007B1":"really smart and funny and awesome and then I got to the bottom of his profile and realized, “Wait a second, I know this guy.” He used to be roommates with my bad ex-boyfriend. And he has dated friends of mine and our social circles vaguely overlap, but I kind of, haven’t seen him ","P1-N4007B2":"in five years, so that’s -
THERAPIST: And his first name was?
CLIENT: Thomas.
THERAPIST: Thomas.
CLIENT: Yeah. I was like, “What the hell?” I’ll just say, “Hey, I’ve really enjoyed reading your profile.” That’s one thing he said in his profile was, he wanted to know what people thought of him. [0:22:07.0] I wrote back to him and told him what I thought of his profile.
THERAPIST: Sorry, is it getting too sunny over there? I’m just going to shut the shade.
CLIENT: No. That’s fine.
THERAPIST: Alright, keep me posted.
CLIENT: Ok. The sun is behind me, it’s all good. Yeah, I messaged him and he messaged back. And he said, “You know, we should set up a time to meet.” And I messaged him back with some dates and he hasn’t replied. Probably because we both have jobs and can’t check OkCupid ","P1-N4008B1":"at work and But anyway, now I’m all anxious about are we just meeting up as friends to reconnect after having not seen each other or is it a date. And I don’t know and I don’t know how to ask. And now I feel terribly awkward and anxious and kind of icky.
THERAPIST: That’s too bad.
CLIENT: It’s really frustrating to me that the crease in the middle of these tissues is not actually in the middle.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: Off center.
THERAPIST: No way.
CLIENT: It’s very annoying.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) is it at least parallel with the sides?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: That’s just not quite in the middle.
THERAPIST: What don’t you like about that? Or is it just annoying?
CLIENT: It’s just annoying. It makes it difficult to fold it exactly in half. It wants to go where the crease is.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: Yeah, it’s always a pain to say something like that to someone like me because I’ll want to make something of it.
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: And actually it reminds me of, I used to do I don’t do much child therapy these days. I used to child therapy and I’m interested in child therapy and child analysis and sometimes it’s, is stuff like that that you see that can be provocative or revealing. What was my other ","P1-N400AF1":"word? Not just like the clear theme in the story even if the kid is playing out with the mommy doll and the daddy doll or whatever.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But anyway Yeah, I mean, we’re talking about you not knowing how to judge yourself and how you put yourself and your thoughts kind of coming apart around that question because you’re so anxious. And I imagine often growing up, the answer was clear and you were often bad, but, ","P1-N400B31":"in a way, happily you’re not so sure about that anymore. At least often times.
CLIENT: When I was in elementary school, I learned origami in school and I wanted to try that origami. And I begged my parents to buy me perfectly square origami paper. And they were like, “That is such a waste of money, just cut a square out of your notebook paper.” And I was like, “It ","P1-N400B91":"won’t be perfectly square because I can’t cut a perfect line.” and it was very, very upsetting to me. So my mom cut out some of sheets of square paper for me from my notebook and they weren’t perfectly square and it drove me crazy because the shapes I folded were not perfectly ","P1-N400B92":"symmetrical because the paper wasn’t square. It was enormously upsetting to me.
THERAPIST: I see. (Pause) Yeah, that makes it come out a little differently. I knew that always bothered me because “Oh my god that’s not right, there’s a problem with it, it’s really bad.”
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It’s really important to be really perfect and have everything just right.
CLIENT: Shocking nuts.
THERAPIST: Shocking.
CLIENT: Anyway, Thomas invited me to sing with his shape note singing group. Which is tonight and I can’t go because tonight is Maundy Thursday and I have to be at church to sing church music for the Maundy Thursday.
THERAPIST: Was it Friday or something?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Maundy Thursday is the commemoration of when Jesus celebrated his (inaudible) with his disciples. It’s a Christianized, westernized version of the Sader. Which if you kind of squint you can see the origins, but it’s quite Christianized, westernized in any regards, but anyway, I really ","P1-N400CF1":"like shape note music. I love, love, love it and it never occurred to me that there were groups in the area that do nothing but shape music.
THERAPIST: Ok. What is it?
CLIENT: (Laughs) It’s a type of folk singing that originated in England in the I want to say 17th century, but I might be wrong. It might be as recent as the 18th century. But anyway, a lot of the first wave of pilgrims and puritans who came into the US and brought that music with them and it’s ","P1-N400D31":"a very egalitarian style of singing.
THERAPIST: Oh no.
CLIENT: We sing maybe one piece a year, if that. Like some years we don’t have any. We only sing that because some members become angry and demand it because they grew up with it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But it never occurred to me that there are groups in the area that meet every week to do nothing but shape note music. And I think this is fantastic. But I’m also really worried about showing up because Thomas invited me. And what if things end up really awkward when we meet each other. ","P1-N400DF1":"Is this a date, is this not a date, meeting friend. I don’t know. I feel overwhelmed by anxieties of all of the things that could possibly go wrong.
CLIENT: And then there’s also part of it, where, in one of his responses to me, Thomas said that he would literally did not recognize who I was from my OkCupid profile. He was like, “You have changed so much since we’ve last spent any time at all hanging out together.” And I ","P1-N400E31":"mean, in some regards I knew this. And on some regards I deliberately set out to change who I am and becoming a different person than I was ten years ago. I don’t really like the me of ten years ago very much. Having changed for the better well, I assume that I’ve changed for the better. ","P1-N400E32":"Suppose I can’t really know that, but I like to think I have.
THERAPIST: But according to you, you have.
CLIENT: Sure. Okay I can take that one. Yeah.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: I like myself a lot better now. Which is just not the way I actually like myself.
THERAPIST: I understand. It’s relevant.
CLIENT: That’s all good, but it’s still felt a little I don’t know. It made me very uncomfortable to hear someone else say it. I felt a little bit embarrassed someone would point it out that you know, like someone had pointed out that I had stepped in a pile of dog shit and it was ","P1-N400EF1":"stuck on my shoe.
THERAPIST: You know why?
CLIENT: No I don’t.
THERAPIST: Do you think it’s because (Pause) maybe he remembered what you like? I’m sorry, what you were like. Which to you, feels shitty. In other words, you felt you we’re pretty shitty then.
CLIENT: Well, maybe. And I don’t have that many friends who knew me ten years ago. And then sometimes I like to pretend the old me of ten years ago didn’t exist.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I suppose it’s not the healthiest. I should be able to integrate my views of myself and accept who I was. All of that good stuff.
THERAPIST: Right, but I (Pause) It’s hard. I think you’ll still feel bad about who you were then.
THERAPIST: I don’t What it sort of reminds me of is more serious, pertains to be sad, but this sort of thing where you haven’t seen somebody since, like that awkward middle school phase where—there are probably, unfortunately still a few pictures around where they haven’t managed ","P1-N401031":"to find and burn or something.
CLIENT: (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Somebody saw one of those or that’s the way they remember you and you say something about it and its years later and you’re like, “Oh, shit.”
CLIENT: I don’t remember feeling awkward in middle school and I didn’t have many friends and that was frustrating. I remember feeling lonely a lot, but I never remember feeling awkward or insecure. I kind of had ridiculous levels of self-confidence for your typical middle-schooler. Possibly ","P1-N401091":"verging into arrogance that might be why I had no friends. (Laughs) It didn’t really start feeling awkward until high school. Middle school was actually not that terrible for me. [0:38:36.4]
THERAPIST: Well good.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I get the point you were trying to make.
THERAPIST: Right, right. (Pause) But you would not have that reaction to (inaudible).
CLIENT: High school was a different story. Wish I could scrap the last two years of high school, first years of college from my memory. Those were some unpleasant times that are embarrassing to think about.
THERAPIST: And some of the worries also kind of come up in here about like, (Pause) (inaudible 0:40:33.5) how you have suffered because you (inaudible) someone who has, in addition to me are you doing (inaudible 0:40:48.7). It’s not what you are talking about with Liam, or anything like that.
CLIENT: Right. I’m doing therapy late. It’s very important to me that I be doing it right.
THERAPIST: Are the criteria clear?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: I think it’s deliberately so on your part.
THERAPIST: Absolutely. I wanted to (inaudible)
CLIENT: (Laughing)
THERAPIST: I’m sorry, what I meant was not are my criteria clear, but do you have clear standards of judgment for what it means.
CLIENT: No, I don’t.
THERAPIST: Ok.
CLIENT: Which is probably for the best because when I just (inaudible 0:41:27.7) and I don’t think it actually helps me anyway.
CLIENT: (inaudible) happened at choir rehearsal yesterday. One of my I wouldn’t call her a friend because we really don’t see or talk to each other outside of choir. We have a friendly relationship.
THERAPIST: Right. It was just what it does for you. (inaudible 0:43:27.4)
CLIENT: Of course, sorry.
THERAPIST: Oh that’s ok. See you Monday.
CLIENT: Yup.