TITLE: Client "B", Session March 04, 2013: Client is reconnecting with people from her past; she feels insecure about her former self and how these people will perceive her now.
DESCRIPTION: Client is reconnecting with people from her past; she feels insecure about her former self and how these people will perceive her now.
CLIENT: There was a street sweeping day, so parking spots are gone.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I wandered for a while trying to find my car and then I was so stressed about not being able to find the car, I was just kind of driving on auto pilot and thinking about being stressed and like started driving to work and got up to the exit before I realized what I've done. (Laughs) So I turned ","P1-N4000F1":"around, came back, and got stuck behind a school bus. (Laughs) It's kind of a miracle I'm only fifteen minutes late.
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: I owe you 600 plus how much for the missed appointment Monday, the one.
THERAPIST: That would be 150.
CLIENT: OK.
THERAPIST: (Pause) And -
CLIENT: Can you spell your last name?
THERAPIST: Sure, and there's also a surplus because of the recording on how you would like to do with it. Do you want me to write you checks ever so often or?
CLIENT: I'm ok with just holding on to it and crediting it towards next year's deductible.
THERAPIST: Sure, that would be ok.
CLIENT: I've been trying to keep track of an extra what is it, 30 bucks a month or whatever, it would drive me nuts.
THERAPIST: Sure. You need a pen?
CLIENT: Yes I do. Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure. Yeah, I have all this so it's easy for me to track.
CLIENT: Yeah, you have billing software and stuff.
THERAPIST: Exactly. It's got to make you think it's much easier than it should, but it does make them much easier.
CLIENT: Hopefully more reliable than a restaurant. I have a new checkbook and I can't tell if the top check is an actual check or it should work. [00:02:00]
THERAPIST: Okay. (inaudible)
CLIENT: So I noticed in a pattern, in the last couple of weeks of all things that I want to bring here and talk about, like the day before, the morning of, while I'm getting ready, but then I'll come in here and I'll just be silent.
THERAPIST: Let's see. Well. (Pause from [00:03:30] to [00:03:57])
CLIENT: Sure and I don't want to have a long conversation, which is something new. I was just hoping things that you have observed that have helped other people actually start talking. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Matter of fact, if I tell you is pretty asinine, which start talking, don't worry about it.
CLIENT: (Laughs) Ok well, I'll just start with approximate causes and work backwards from there, instead of trying to start from the beginning, chronological working forward. So, I was online, browsing around and I ran across a profile of someone who used to be apartment-mates with my bad ex-boyfriend.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: His name is Ashley. I think I mentioned him last year.
THERAPIST: You did.
CLIENT: We started messaging and we're going to see each other on Saturday. And we kind of had this stupidly long processingly e-mail conversation about whether this was or was not a date and what is the definition of date and we're both ridiculously wordy human beings.
THERAPIST: (laughs)
CLIENT: Literally thousands of words spilled on the topic of, Is this a date or is it not and if it is, is it a good idea. Oh my goodness it was, but anyways. So, I knew this guy 12 years ago when I was a very different person and I don't particularly like the person I was then, so I'm kind of Part ","P1-N4004F1":"of me is wandering what the hell I was thinking when I messaged him.[00:06:09]
THERAPIST: Not really.
CLIENT: Ok, so Live Journal is a blogging service that was invented in 1999, 2000ish, I've been on it since the beginning. And so has Ashley and so has a bunch of my friends in the university, hang around gate community and it's the way my friends and I use it, I don't want to be prescriptive about ","P1-N400551":"the way everyone uses it or be descriptive because I don't how to answer it.
THERAPIST: I'm just going to shut this a little bit.
CLIENT: Sure. So it's not in your eyes.
THERAPIST: Something like that.
CLIENT: But anyways, so where I was going with all of this was, even though I haven't really seen him since Phil and I broke up. I feel like I know him because we've been reading each other's journals for so long.
THERAPIST: Well, I imagine the worries are the same all around with you and with him and with me. That (Pause) will, in you looking at, thinking about who you were or at least how you imagine now how you were then.
CLIENT: Sure.
THERAPIST: That will project you to fall. (Pause) And that one way you try to manage that worry is through, sort of, considerations about how to look at yourself with structured things. Whether it's talking to me or how your definition or his definition (inaudible) a date coincided. (Laughter) Get out ","P1-N4006B1":"your head and think about things. There's nothing wrong with reassuring yourself and I'm not trying to say that's bad. I'm just saying I think it's a bit trying to reassure yourself. [00:12:03]
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause)
THERAPIST: You're scared about putting out there more plainly thinks I think about who you were. You know, you alluded to, seemingly different.
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm, just still trying to figure out why I got in touch with Ashley and if it's going to be a good idea. My motivations aren't really okay with me and it's a little unsettling. (Pause)
THERAPIST: I think he's a hottie. (Chuckles)
CLIENT: Not in the mainstream conventional sense of the word, but for me.
THERAPIST: To you.
CLIENT: There's a lot of hot people in the world, there's a lot of hot people online and there's lot's hot people who are friends of friends who set me up on dates with.
THERAPIST: And you like him, I think.
CLIENT: Yes, I do and I like him!
THERAPIST: I trust you that you're attracted to him, well, there's that too. But I get the impression from the way you talk about him that you really like him.
CLIENT: Yes. [00:16:00] As much as you can like someone where your only attractions in the last eight years have been on the Internet. I don't know. Another story I could tell is that there's something pathological that I'm trying to relive my college years by dating all the people I wanted to date ","P1-N400851":"back then. But didn't because I was too crazy and too repressed then. All those horrible adjectives to describe the me, 12 years ago.
THERAPIST: And how is that pathological exactly? (Pause) I understand why you might want to do it.
CLIENT: I mean because time passes and try to go back and recreate the situation that has already passed, that kind of feels a little bit to me like willfully trying to ignore or deny reality.
THERAPIST: That would make a lot of sense, if that was what you we're trying to do. But as far as I can tell, you don't anything to do with the past.
CLIENT: The more I keep reconnecting with people who I know from my past. (Laughter) Great.
THERAPIST: Sorry about that. (Pause)
CLIENT: What I can remember ever wanting to be in a relationship with him then. Just appreciation of how hot he is. But I think when I knew him as Phil's roommate; he was terribly intimidating to me. I was 19, he is six years older than me, which is nothing at 30, but it's quite a big deal at 19. [00:18:18]
THERAPIST: What's attractive about him?
CLIENT: His sense of humor is just ever so lightly skewed from the mainstream, instead of he's just I don't know, the phrase aggressively weird is coming to me. And I think this is, that it's not quite fair, I think there too many connotations we hang on the word aggressive for that to be to really ","P1-N400951":"get across what I mean. But he's very un-self-consciously weird. And he's very enthusiastic about just about everything. He's one of those people who Carpe' Diem and break his leg. (Pause)
THERAPIST: What does he do?
CLIENT: He studies linguistics. And did natural language processing software development for a while. And then he went to law school and now he does patent law. Which is a little questionable as a career choice as far as I'm concerned. (Laughs)
THERAPIST: Because it is, pay for a patent?
CLIENT: Yes. We have some ideology mismatch.
THERAPIST: It guess, sort of get it.
CLIENT: Yeah, all these hangers on and groupies, who just want to be Katie because she's kind of social nexus and I always resented that always, always. And I mean, the resentment, I fully own that's my problem, not hers. I need to get over that. I have to some extent recently, but I really don't enjoy ","P1-N400AB1":"being around her and watching people hanging on her every word while she's you know, spiraling around in her little vortex of angst and drama.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) (Pause from [00:23:20] to [00:24:04]) You seem convinced that you're doing something wrong here.
CLIENT: Yes I do. Seem convinced that is. Possibly because I am. Possibly because I am confused. I don't know, I mentioned to a friend of mine, Lori, who I've also known since our freshman year up at school. And Lori and Katie have been best friends since freshman. They're really close and I'm really ","P1-N400AF1":"close to Lori and it's terribly frustrating to Lori that Katie and I never got along.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Anyway, for Lori's sake, Katie and I reached a detente a couple of years ago. Just try to stay out of each other's way now, but anyway.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) threw off by social (inaudible)
CLIENT: There's a faint desperation about it. (Pause) It can't be that terrible because I have come across many people who I know in real life online. And instantly blocked them because bad idea.
THERAPIST: Yeah I guess it makes me think of you, sort of you creating a situation, of almost like at work. Where you wind up feeling like the people you are connected to and in a way are watching over you. By thinking all these bad things. I think I can see how unproductive and pathological you are. ","P1-N400C71":"And really, the reason you set things up that way. You know what I mean, you getting, you sort of arrange it so that—I don't think it's the whole reason. But it feels like a fishbowl in a way. With people kind of doing. There's nothing wrong with you and there needs to be something, probably but ","P1-N400C72":"clearly, you know, painful and difficult. But maybe also reassuring about things that way.
CLIENT: What do you mean? How?
THERAPIST: Well I'm not sure. Maybe because you don't understand. Maybe because you're pretty familiar with figurations.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: We need to stop for now. Till Monday.