TITLE: Client "B", Session July 18, 2013: Client feels she is obsessing about the man she is dating, wants to increase how much he communicates with her, discusses past relationships.
DESCRIPTION: Client feels she is obsessing about the man she is dating, wants to increase how much he communicates with her, discusses past relationships.
THERAPIST: What's on your mind?
CLIENT: (pause) I feel completely ridiculous but I'm still mostly just thinking about Ashley which is absurd and I'm…[a crime] (ph) that I am spending this much emotional energy on a boy, a boy I've only known for three months. This is absurd. I am very displeased with myself about it. So I guess ","P1-N4000F1":"there's another level of thinking about how to [squeeze by on] (ph) myself with thinking about Ashley so much.
THERAPIST: (pause) Let's see.
CLIENT: So part of the concern I have is he never initiates conversations when we're not physically in each other's presence. So he doesn't IM me. He doesn't text me. And he doesn't initiate scheduling our next date. I've done all of that work. And also (pause) he's extremely introverted so I feel very ","P1-N400231":"inhibited about just starting conversations with him online because I don't want to cause him stress or discomfort or make him feel like I am crowding him or invading his space or being too pushy or too demanding or too needy too much. So I've put a lot of effort into throttling back my need for communication ","P1-N400232":"and contact and that's not sustainable in the long term. [00:08:43]
THERAPIST: It does sound as though you're (pause) very worried about (pause) scaring him off or probably (ph) provoking some internal bad judgment on my part (pause) for being crazy (pause) and specifically for wanting to be closer to him and wanting more of him (pause) and wanting those things a lot ","P1-N400311":"that that (pause) makes you crazy in some really unappealing way.
CLIENT: That is in fact exactly what I am worried about. (silence from 00:14:57 to 00:15:20)
THERAPIST: Yeah, if the other person is going to be really critical and really turned off hence I am shaming. (ph) (pause) In response to your (pause) need and desire to being closer are more (pause)…I'm sort of reiterating, maybe slightly elaborating (inaudible).
CLIENT: Is that crazy?
THERAPIST: Huh? Is it crazy?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: What specifically?
CLIENT: I mean just how I use (ph) a solid, concrete measure to talk about the "we need to talk online at least three times a week." Is that an unreasonable thing to ask? Is it unreasonable to frame it like that as a miserable standard? Is this outside the norm of acceptable human behavior? I have no ","P1-N400431":"perspective on this at all. [00:17:24]
THERAPIST: And I guess that's (pause) something else that gets implicated here, your (pause)…I think it's also fear and shame (pause) about not knowing or not feeling a sense of perspective on what you want. (pause) I actually think that's very (pause) important, (pause) like that sense of alienation ","P1-N400451":"there, I think. (pause) And (pause) it's like (pause) the other person knows the other person's part of the world. The other person has to sort of be firmly planted in the social reality that everybody else knows but him. And you're kind of out there with what you want not knowing if it's anywhere reasonable ","P1-N400452":"or makes sense or whatever. And (pause) that's the other person's going (ph) to take, the perspective. [00:19:58]
CLIENT: Yep!
THERAPIST: I think [in Tomers] (ph) of perspective I think it's like can the other person tolerate what you want? Is that okay with them? (pause) Alright, I'm also giving you a straight answer, stunningly… (chuckle)
CLIENT: (chuckle) That might be a first.
THERAPIST: No that's not crazy. Different people need different degrees of contact or are comfortable with or want different things in relationships. I mean (pause) I could see if you frame it as somebody that works (ph) (inaudible) this isn't going to work. [And maybe that's true] (ph) just like that. ","P1-N400511":"I think also what you're saying is this is what works for you, or at least that's what would work for you with him. It might be different with somebody else but you're feelings are pretty intense and for you in order to be comfortable (inaudible) relationship, that means you need to be in touch pretty ","P1-N400512":"often. [00:22:37]
CLIENT: That hasn't been true with all of my relationships, although it has been for most of them. And Tom was something of a special case in that I never really had intense feelings towards him. We were friends. We had amazing sex but we weren't dating so we would go six or seven weeks at a time without ","P1-N400531":"talking and that was fine. We also had an established friendship for six years before we started being together. (pause) With Jenny (ph) and Mark, yeah I talked to Mark online pretty much every day. I talked to Jenny (ph) probably two or three times a week. That was a triad and the communication needs ","P1-N400532":"were different for both of them. I don't know. I can't come up with any solid explanation for why the amount of contact I need varies so much. (pause) But there it is. [00:23:49]
THERAPIST: Is your concern that he'd want something more like what you had with Tom with you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Sort of an occasional thing more so than…
CLIENT: Yeah, which I mean obviously I'm not opposed to the general principle.
THERAPIST: Right. [What would work well?] (ph) (inaudible).
CLIENT: (inaudible) particular, yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah you mentioned something yesterday.
CLIENT: It's actually based on a metaphor you made on colds (ph).
THERAPIST: Oh!
CLIENT: I called myself the nutcase and you said to take that literally and imagine me forming a hard shell around my heart.
THERAPIST: You didn't mention that yesterday.
CLIENT: Maybe? I don't know. I'd have to think on that.
THERAPIST: [I don't mean to make you] (ph) uncomfortable, it's just a little ironic. (pause) "I'm going to have to think about that," is a perfectly reasonable thing to say but for some reason you'll be like, "Which is clearly not the sort of thing I'd do here and now at a point like this. Sometime ","P1-N4007F1":"when it's appropriate I'll think about that." (chuckle) I'm not trying to get you to think about that here and now, it's just kind of (inaudible). I was probably evidently smiling and I wanted to explain why.
CLIENT: I can show it to you if you like.
THERAPIST: Sure!
CLIENT: I'm not going to read it out loud because I'm entirely too shy.
THERAPIST: Sure. That would be good.
CLIENT: Give me just a second to pull it up. (inaudible) it is so slow. (pause) Ignore the wonky line breaks that my e-mail client inserted.
THERAPIST: Okay, do you want to e-mail it to me or just look at it on your phone?
CLIENT: Just look at it on my phone.
THERAPIST: Apparently you're in love with him.
CLIENT: Yes, very much so. (pause) And it sucks.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) right?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It seems like a very good thing. (pause) Though I appreciate that I'm very (inaudible). It's got to be terribly painful. [00:37:04]
CLIENT: I can't help but think my life would be so much easier if I were able to just shut off my emotions.
THERAPIST: It's terribly painful (inaudible) have a real line (ph) for that.
CLIENT: You're smirking.
THERAPIST: I'm smiling. I was thinking of something that (inaudible) said in the 60s or early 70s and it's a little tongue-in-cheek. I would not…I don't mean to apologize for any of this but he said, "Love is the only socially acceptable form of psychosis." (chuckle) I guess I got there by thinking ","P1-N400B71":"about how you're feeling crazy.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: And I guess I admit I also thought of the quote because sure in a way it is crazy and in a way it isn't. (pause) I hope it doesn't…when I say that it doesn't sound like I'm trying to pathologize.
CLIENT: Oh, just thinking about Lucy, who Ashley introduced me to, she's engaged to Ashley's housemate. There's an e-mail from her on my phone that I haven't read yet but it's probably a response to the short story I posted online this morning. And I was thinking about how I fundamentally view relationships ","P1-N400C31":"as transactional (ph) and trying to think if I had left commentary on the last couple of poems she posted on her journal.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I'm making a mental note to make sure I left feedback because heaven forbid relationships not be perfectly balanced (inaudible) become uneven. [00:41:09]
THERAPIST: Well there's a bunch there that I think if you submitted that (pause)…you're acutely aware of what it feels like to be on the other side of that line. (pause) And don't want to feel [that way again] (ph). (pause) I don't know. I guess I also wonder if you're giving her (inaudible) she'd ","P1-N400CB1":"be hurt but also frustrated with you if she felt that imbalance. [But I want to sit down with Ashley] (ph) among obviously, other things.
CLIENT: I mean I am frustrated with him. I don't know that I seem mad. (pause) Frustrated is certainly fair.
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop for now? And we're on tomorrow morning?
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:42:58]