TITLE: Client "B", Session July 17, 2013: Client talks about a convention she attended, her writing, a romantic relationship, and her relationship with her therapist.
DESCRIPTION: Client talks about a convention she attended, her writing, a romantic relationship, and her relationship with her therapist.
THERAPIST: First about your insurance. I tried to call there yesterday. They didn't say (ph) anything (ph) about (ph) the time frame of having gotten (ph) back to them. It actually–the benefits (ph) of neglecting that sort of thing–may have been good in that it may delay the next time a ","P1-N4000B1":"review occurs. And we'll have to see.
CLIENT: I'm just glad I hadn't gotten rid of it.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean, I could have called and eventually got to the right person, it just would have been 20 more minutes on the phone, but I do appreciate you sending that in (ph). Glad (inaudible at 00:03:23)
CLIENT: I don't know. I kind of feel like a wreck right now. And I don't know where to start. There's…(9 second pause) [00:03:55]
THERAPIST: That's right you had mentioned (inaudible phrase at 00:04:38).
CLIENT: And I'm really glad I got to see them and we had a great time, but for years it has been like the bastion of stodgy, old, white men who just talk to talk timeline (ph) and if you're not interested in that—talk your talk, basically.
THERAPIST: I haven't the analogy (ph) of Beta software testers?
CLIENT: Yes. And they all liked it and they all had critiques to make and one of my readers did a fairly thorough one and I'm very grateful to her because it made it so much better. They all liked it, basically. You know, Stacey, who is an amazingly talented writer who I have a great deal of admiration ","P1-N4002B1":"for, her response was, "Wow! Fucking wow!"
THERAPIST: Wow!
CLIENT: Yeah. Once I incorporated all the edits and was happy with it, I posted that to my dream (ph) web (ph). Got no comments on it. Which was a little upsetting, so and if it —I don't know —something, some kind of emotion. I deleted all my online accounts and journals and things. Which ","P1-N4002F1":"would not be the arabacle (ph) that it sounds like because all these services have the undelete option within 30 days and they will save all your data and restore all your data. I don't know. [00:07:44]
THERAPIST: Your work with writers (ph)?
CLIENT: Yeah. And then there's stuff with Ashley. I had thought that we had firm plans to see each other the weekend of the seventh, and I guess there was a miscommunication there, but we ended up he ended up spending that whole weekend with one of his other partners and... The understanding I got ","P1-N400331":"was that she was going through some kind of personal crisis and needed him and you know, that's fine. These things happen. Whatever. And he also didn't think we had made firm plans for the seventh. And then we had plans for the fourteenth that he canceled. And, again, his cat was dying and it was in ","P1-N400332":"an emergency veterinary clinic overnight and that's stressful and terrible and these things happen. But, the cat has trach (ph) cancer and has six months to live and that's all sad and terrible, but the cat is stable now. So, I e-mailed him to say, "Can we reschedule?" and he was like, "My cat is dying. ","P1-N400333":"I will think about this later." And I was like, but if the cat is stable and has six months to live, are we just not going to see each other for six months? [00:09:03]
THERAPIST: Yeah, he needs more space than you can be happy with.
CLIENT: Right. It's just, when we're together, it's wonderful. He is smart and he is funny and we have amazing conversations and when we're physically in each other's presence, he's incredibly attentive and caring and gentle and wonderful, but when we're not, he never initiates online chats. He never ","P1-N400391":"calls. He's just I keep trying to tell myself, he's just an introvert and he's generally a receptive—When I start a conversation with him, then I end up worrying that he's just along for the ride because I keep swinging myself into his path and saying, "Look at me", and he's actually not that ","P1-N400392":"interested in me. And I don't know how to bring this up with him without sounding completely neurotic and I don't know if I'm just, if I'm actually being unreasonable or if I've just internalized a bunch of toxic messages from society about how women should be chill girlfriends and not have emotional ","P1-N400393":"needs because, you know, women aren't allowed to have needs. It's kind of hard to tell because my perspective is completely screwed up, but it's really—The amount of effort I've put in to not being too needy and not being too demanding and not being too much for him is getting to be unhealthy, ","P1-N400394":"I think. So, clearly the next time I see him, I need to bring this up and I don't know how and it's making me worried and anxious thinking about it and I would like to just get that conversation over with, but he's not willing to schedule a meeting until when I don't know. I have no idea when he'll ","P1-N400395":"be willing (ph) to even talk about scheduling. It's really frustrating. I'm crazy, maybe. And then, literally, I feel like I am going crazy because of this. [00:11:45]
THERAPIST: I think that's just…two thoughts. One is…him (inaudible at 00:13:27) makes me think of having something of a muse for you and you being fairly (ph) frustrated that that's not bringing him around.
CLIENT: Yeah, that's probably (inaudible at 00:13:55) I don't know how I feel about that. (seven second pause) I'm a little bit of attractive (ph) for (ph) him, like I'm just using him for his museness. (sp)
THERAPIST: Oh. That's (ph) what I had in mind. Umm, maybe my memory's a little mixed, but I had it like sort of a muse for you and inspiring (ph) some of the kinds of things you have created (ph) and just your mood (ph). Like, your creative mood, even if you're not writing things like intentionally ","P1-N400411":"carnated (ph) in him and that part of how that's supposed to work, although I don't know that this fits with the muse metaphor really, is that he's then supposed to pay attention to it and get excited about it and be drawn in and more attentive and seduced in a way and he hasn't (ph) been, but…And ","P1-N400412":"that I think things feel like they're going the other way a little bit. [00:15:37]
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: And then, I wondered too, if there is any degree of communication about some things somewhat parallel with me where I never call, I never e-mail, I rarely ask (ph).
CLIENT: (chuckle)
THERAPIST: Yet, you're doing (ph) all this stuff, and (inaudible at 00:16:28) with all this stuff, and you're here (inaudible phrase at 00:16:32). Maybe he'll seem (ph) drawn in, in ways that I ought to be (ph). [00:16:46]
CLIENT: No, I don't (ph) think (ph) that's (inaudible).
THERAPIST: No?
THERAPIST: I guess, regardless of, other than any truth (ph) to any of that, I think you're not wild about the idea that…In other words, whether I'm right or wrong, maybe I'm completely wrong on both counts.
CLIENT: (chuckle)
THERAPIST: You don't (inaudible phrase at 00:18:17)
CLIENT: No, I don't. (sigh and 11 second pause) Although, if you're right, it doesn't really matter whether I like it or not.
THERAPIST: Well, now wait a minute. I mean, it doesn't affect the truth about you.
CLIENT: Right. [00:18:44]
THERAPIST: But you know, I'm not (ph) going to say (ph) that it's quite a negation (ph) of your emotional life where (ph) in the statement (ph) that it doesn't matter.
CLIENT: But I mean, regardless of how I feel, I can't change reality. The universe doesn't care about my feelings. (15 second pause) [00:19:37]
THERAPIST: "So and so who I cared so much about is dead, and it doesn't really matter how I feel about her because they're dead and no matter what I feel it's not going to bring them back or change anything." [00:19:47]
CLIENT: So, your tone of voice indicates that you're being slightly teasing, but I actually agree with everything you say, like on my (cross-talk at 00:20:00)
THERAPIST: You're right about the teasing and maybe I shouldn't be, but you're obviously right about (cross-talk at 00:20:02). I'll at least own up to it.
CLIENT: (chuckles) Perhaps trying to point out the absurdity (ph) of my belief with an extreme example, except that I actually agree with the extreme example.
THERAPIST: I see (ph). Mourning is stupid?
CLIENT: Not stupid, but ultimately pointless. [00:20:30]
THERAPIST: Hmm...
THERAPIST: How come? Like whether (inaudible phrase at 00:21:37)
CLIENT: I mean, you have to move on with your life. [00:21:43]
THERAPIST: I think, in a way, you're kind of negating both of us there, because I think you feel so, sort of helpless and vulnerable in the space (ph) of the emotional reactions you do have to things (ph). Those are so humiliating and unacceptable that you are, sort of, disavowing (ph) how much they ","P1-N400771":"point to what matters to you and I think are also entirely sort of negating I don't know a way to say this that isn't going to sound a little bit lightly (ph) any possible point of therapy all together. [00:25:18]
CLIENT: (9 second pause) Can you elaborate on that?
THERAPIST: The latter (ph) part?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Well, the feelings— how you feel about something or emotional reactions are (ph) pointless, and to (ph) the therapy, no (ph)?
CLIENT: Well, maybe I've (ph) had the wrong idea of what therapy is for, but I've always thought that the point of therapy was to be able to not let my emotions get in the way of doing the things that need to be done. That's an awfully (inaudible phrase at 00:26:12) focused way of looking at it, but ","P1-N400811":"I mean—and I don't like that, but it is how I feel, if that makes sense?
THERAPIST: Right. (15 second pause) I think, we both know that of course that has everything to do in practice with feeling better.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess which is in part what makes me continue (ph) like a disavow is that it's sort of entirely emphasizing in one part and entirely excluding another of two things that clearly go hand in hand. And I think partly (ph) because the way you just formulated it, feels (ph) so much more acceptable ","P1-N4008D1":"and safe (ph)... [00:28:43]
CLIENT: And like there isn't a version of stereotypical gender roles there, too.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I can't not notice that.
THERAPIST: Sure. (7 second pause) Did you have another thought about that part of it? [00:31:12]
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: It just strikes (ph) you?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So we seem to have started in one place and got to another in that you began talking about a kind of crash, albeit unexpected from the Con, having actually felt more connected to people there and to more a part of what was going on and feeling upset about things with Ashley, and also enthused, ","P1-N400A51":"I think, about what you've been writing and somehow(long pause)-it landed somewhere where only efficiency and productivity (ph) matters. [00:33:49]
CLIENT: (sigh) Yep. (13 second pause)
THERAPIST: And I think, my hunch, although I'm somewhat tentative about this, is that what changed our course was your feeling about my sort of statement or suspicion, that part of your creative and productive efforts (ph) those are in part to please or seduce people. I don't mean "seduce" like just ","P1-N400A91":"a sexual way, but bring them around or get them to pay attention. Like it has to do with a way of bringing people close, and that was a disturbing possibility. Again, I want to be tentative about that as the…source of the change of direction. I am (inaudible) with (ph) that. [00:36:04]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Making it in the end much more about personal (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Than about some objective standard or the value, in and of itself, important (ph). Don't you think? (ph) [00:37:07]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It's time.