TITLE: Client "B", Session May 16, 2013: Client discusses the fear that they will never be good enough in the eyes of others.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses the fear that they will never be good enough in the eyes of others.
THERAPIST: Let’s see, after today you’re going away to Italy.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: And I know you sent me the date. When are you coming back?
CLIENT: I’m coming back a week from Monday.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So I’ll be here… I’ll miss both sessions next week, but then the week after will be normal.
THERAPIST: All right. So we’ll meet again after today two weeks from yesterday.
CLIENT: Yep. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I really don’t want to go. (Pause) I’ve also been avoiding talking about work because it’s just demoralizing. [0:00:59] But work is really not going well. Now, I’m at the point where my mentor is checking in on me multiple times a day to make sure that I’m actually ","P1-N4001D1":"on task and doing work and being productive. And it’s really… it’s humiliating, and I’m still not getting anything done. And it’s really… I don’t know what to do. The last, I don’t know, month and a half really I’ve been spending more time on the ","P1-N4001D2":"Internet at work and less time actually doing things that need to be done. And when I’m not on the Internet just everything I need to do, and I’ve missed a couple of deadlines. And it’s just been awful, and I don’t know what to do about it. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Hmm. (Pause) [0:02:02]
CLIENT: The last couple of months have been really busy, and there’s been a lot of stressful stuff going on in my personal life but also some really amazing stuff. I’ve been happier than I ever have been before within my personal life, when I’m not at work.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: But there’s still just this constant underlying malaise, I guess, of feeling like I’ll never be good enough at work and in my personal life. [0:02:58] I’ll never be interesting to the people around me. I’ll never produce art that people actually want to look at or to ","P1-N400251":"see. A constant drumbeat of comparing myself to my friends and finding myself falling short. (Pause) [0:04:00] My friend Jeannette puts a thing on her website about her latest collaboration. Ellen Kushner, who is a pretty big deal in sci-fi fantasy publishing… [0:05:04]
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. An author?
CLIENT: Yeah, and a publisher… approached Jeannette and asked Jeannette to write a poem for an anthology Margaret was editing. And Jeannette’s friend Cindy was also invited to contribute to the anthology. So Jeannette and Cindy collaborated, and so Jeannette … so Cindy was writing ","P1-N400291":"a story. And in her story the protagonist was a singer, and so Jeannette’s poem was the song that Cindy’s protagonist is singing. And then the song was based off of a painting that was made by another mutual friend of Jeannette and Cindy.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm.
CLIENT: And then Jeannette’s sister, who actually is a sister, and her husband, who is a very talented musician, wrote a setting for the poem and recorded it. And it was just this amazing multi-person collaboration. [0:05:58] And (sighing) I felt a little bit jealous that I don’t have any ","P1-N4002D1":"of the skills necessary to participate in something like that. [But, I mean] (ph), on one hand that was a choice that I made back in high school not to develop any of those skills. And I’m trying now, but I don’t know. It’s… I feel like it might be too late for me? That’s ","P1-N4002D2":"a little sad, especially because (chuckling) I’m not actually good (ph) at my job, which would use the skills that I did invest time in to developing.
THERAPIST: I see. (Pause) [0:07:00] [0:08:00] Well (pause), you seem today to be in a sort of a humiliatapalooza (sp?)…
CLIENT: (Chuckling) Maybe. [0:08:59] (Pause)
THERAPIST: And mostly… both describing in your life at work and socially and kind of replaying in a way here this sort of (pause) chronic, ongoing (pause) degradation and humiliation, where you are made to feel like a wretch, either by your manager checking in on you and at least what I imagine ","P1-N400331":"would be your shared sense with him of your lack of productivity and general worthlessness, I think… [0:10:25]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Or in comparison to your friends in this sort of relentless way that you kind of continue to call that to mind a lot.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And I feel like you’re also sort of parading that in front of me in a way that I imagine feels pretty crummy. [0:11:06]
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And (pause) I guess I have two thoughts about it. One is, it sounds like you’re preparing this for your family (pause) and are kind of (pause) anticipating and kind of simultaneously battening down the hatches…
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. [0:11:54]
THERAPIST: Imagining you’re going to get a pretty heavy dose of this on the trip…
CLIENT: Yep. (Pause)
THERAPIST: And (pause) I can imagine a few different ways it might relate to things here as well. I’m not sure…
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Which it is. I could imagine it as a way of preparing not to be here next week or sort of… [0:13:05] (Pause) Yeah, I’m not sure. I think both of us know that in a sense your [real connection with your family who makes you feel like death] (ph)... I’m not sure. (Pause) [0:14:00] [0:15:00]
CLIENT: Something that’s really frustrating to me is when I tell Jack that I’m feeling demoralized at work and I haven’t been productive. He’ll come back with, well, I have unproductive days sometimes, too. I know how you feel. And it’s (sighing)… (Pause) [0:15:55] ","P1-N4004D1":"He just refuses to understand that there’s a huge qualitative and quantitative difference between having an unproductive day every single day without a single day of doing something, anything useful for three months, versus having one unproductive day in the middle of a year where you won a fucking ","P1-N4004D2":"award for being the most valuable engineer on your team. (Sighing) It’s really invalidating and upsetting. And then… so I stopped talking to him about it. And then he assumes that things are going well at work because I’m not talking about it, because I talk about my feelings all the ","P1-N4004D3":"time. And then I have a day like yesterday where I just came home in tears because everything was just so horrible. And he was like, well, why didn’t you tell me? Well… (Pause) [0:17:00] And I’ve tried telling him explicitly, saying that you have bad days too is not helpful for me. ","P1-N4004D4":"It actively makes me feel worse, please don’t do that.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And yet he’ll keep doing that, I guess because he forgets or he doesn’t care or I don’t know and it doesn’t really matter.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (Pause)
CLIENT: I dread going to work. (Pause) And once I’m at work it’s so hard not to just pop open a browser and surf the net.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. [0:17:58] (Pause)
CLIENT: And I’ve tried every technique I know of. I’ve tried self-talk. I’ve tried promising myself rewards if I can get everything on my task list done. I’ve tried a whole variety of productivity techniques, from… there’s a whole industry of tools for…
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Increase your productivity at work, and it’s just nothing works. And I don’t know what to do. (Pause) [0:19:00]
THERAPIST: Well, you must being getting very scared (ph) in your job.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (Pause) [0:20:00] [0:21:00]
THERAPIST: And (ph) I’ve never thought about it like this before. [0:21:59] But there is a bit of a passive anti (ph) quality to it, in the way we were talking about the other day.
CLIENT: Oh. (Pause) Except this time it’s my own brain that I’m passive against.
THERAPIST: Yes, absolutely. (Pause) [0:22:57] Only you also seem to be recruiting your manager a bit as well. I don’t think he’s doing anything wrong…
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But part of how it’s working out and I think it has worked before is, you recruit him into doing something that sort of makes you feel subject to and kind of humiliated by someone else…
CLIENT: Yeah. (Pause)
THERAPIST: And (ph) I’d imagine not really any more so than you’d feel sort of judging yourself.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But… (Pause) [0:24:00] [0:25:00] I think there’s also something probably quite related and important. [0:25:55] But I could imagine a few different ways (inaudible at 0:25:56), that, at this moment as well as at other times, you don’t have much to say. (Pause) It’s ","P1-N400731":"hard for me to have a sense of that, to what extent it’s feeling shut down, to what extent it’s feeling like, I’m not playing, I want to take my stuff and go home…
CLIENT: (Chuckling) No, it’s not that.
THERAPIST: (Chuckling)
CLIENT: I don’t know, I feel like I’ve said everything that’s on my mind right now?
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: I mean, I don’t have anything new to add? The things I’ve been thinking have just been kind of reiterations of the same thing, of, I feel worthless, and I hate feeling worthless, and I don’t know how to stop feeling worthless, and it sucks. [0:27:05]
THERAPIST: I encourage you to state them anyway. Let me explain. Or let me sort of [see if I can] (ph) motivate a little bit.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: I’m not sure how sort of how clear this already may be or not. But the way you talk in here is as much or really honestly quite a bit more so about process and what unfolds. It’s more so about that than about content? So if you were to sit here and just say the same three sentences ","P1-N400831":"for the entire hour, from a content point of view, you could have left after two minutes, and we wouldn’t know anything more. [0:28:04] But from more of a process point of view it’s very different to do that for forty-five minutes than to do it for five minutes, you know?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: It has a very different feel. It elaborates quite a bit on some things (pause), all that. So I (sighing)… I guess in a way it seems to me that your idea is that, if there’s no new content, you’re not adding anything.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: I mean, I know there are other settings in which that’s true, but not in this strange setting. [0:28:59] (Pause)
CLIENT: Also it just doesn’t feel good to keep circling around the same thing. (Pause)
THERAPIST: I imagine it starts to feel like being at work.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm. (Pause)
THERAPIST: And I imagine there’s got to be some idea in here (pause), even if you think differently at another level, that I’m kind of sitting here like your boss, in my… [and that] (ph) you basically see him personally as sort of a benign fellow… [0:30:13]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But you’re fucking up so badly and are so unproductive that it kind of even in a way probably makes it worse for somebody who you know is more or less nice and more or less well motivated, well intentioned.
CLIENT: Yep. This can’t be fun for him either.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. And…
CLIENT: Got to go check on the employee who’s not doing her work. I’m sure that’s totally what he wants to be spending his time doing.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. Right. (Pause) He’s not enjoying it. He’s feeling you’re a real drag.
CLIENT: Yep. [0:30:59] (Pause)
THERAPIST: You both find it sort of pathetic.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: I see. And you kind of ward that off a little bit by not talking about this (inaudible at 0:31:20) strategy (crosstalk).
CLIENT: It’s not a very good one, is it? I worry that…
THERAPIST: [It doesn’t seem like] (ph) that much fun any which way.
CLIENT: I know. I worry that I picked the wrong line of work, that this is just not an industry that I am well suited for and that I should have done something entirely different and that it’s too late to change. (Pause) [0:32:00] And I can’t tell if that’s real or if that’s ","P1-N400AD1":"just a grass is greener moment. I have no idea what I might actually be good at.
THERAPIST: Mm-hmm. (Pause) [0:33:00] [0:34:00] [0:34:57] I wonder if that’s a little bit [the part] (ph) where I’m then supposed to say, well, clearly this is just about you being so fucked up. This is not at all about your kind of talents in this line of work. And (pause) where in a way ","P1-N400AF1":"I… you might expect me to overlook that (pause) maybe there is something important about what you said. Maybe [this is really] (ph) you.
CLIENT: I don’t know. (Pause) [0:35:57] I remember being much happier with a lab job than a desk job?
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: But I don’t know how to go about getting one of those. They’re getting scarce (ph). There’s a whole set of skills I don’t have yet. And they’re kind of a prerequisite for having a lab job and doubly so since (ph) I don’t have the certification (inaudible at ","P1-N400B51":"0:36:25), you don’t really know how to do it. I mean, I can figure it out, I’m smart. But it’s definitely a physical skill that requires practice. (Pause) [0:37:00] I think I’d do better in a job that was less self-directed, [someone convince] (ph) me to go down rabbit holes ","P1-N400B52":"and chase problems that aren’t really problems or problems that are far less critical and… I don’t know, something where there’s an expectation that the job would receive more direction, as opposed to, we’re going to check in on you because you’re fucking up at being self-directed.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I don’t know. (Pause) [0:37:55]
THERAPIST: Where it’s considered a plus to do well with having (inaudible at 0:38:03) rather than (inaudible at 0:38:06).
CLIENT: Yep. (Pause) [0:39:00] (Sighing) (Pause) I just… I want to find something I can be good at. (Pause) [0:40:00] Preferably something that other people also find worthwhile. (Pause) [0:41:00] [0:42:00] I feel a little arrogant even saying that because the world is full of people who are just ","P1-N400BD1":"average, and that’s perfectly fine (inaudible at 0:42:23). But there’s a part of me that still wants to be the best at something.
THERAPIST: Hmm. (Pause)
CLIENT: I think I really crave recognition and admiration. (Pause) [0:42:59] It strikes me as terribly (ph) pathological. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Well, we should stop. If there’s an emergency or basic bad (ph) and you want to talk I might be able to Skype while you’re away.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But just let me know.
CLIENT: Yeah, I’m not sure how that would work out, because my parents have no sense of boundaries and get really upset if you’re ever not in their presence for any amount of time unless you’re actually asleep?
THERAPIST: I see, okay.
CLIENT: So… yeah.
THERAPIST: All right. Good luck.
CLIENT: Thanks.