TITLE: Client "B", Session June 17, 2013: Client discusses a religious retreat she went on, and her continuing sadness over the way her parents treat her and view their relationship.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses a religious retreat she went on, and her continuing sadness over the way her parents treat her and view their relationship.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning. (pause) Dave promised he would do the laundry yesterday when we got back from our parish retreat. After dinner — we went out with friends for dinner. When we came back, I was really tired because I had done all the driving for the retreat, and Dave swore he would get the ","P1-N4000D1":"laundry done. I put all of my pants, like every pair of pants I own, in the laundry. And I went to sleep at like 9:00.
THERAPIST: Okay. (pause)
CLIENT: (sighing) Sorry. (long pause) Anyway. (long pause)
THERAPIST: So what comes to mind?
CLIENT: (sighing) I don't know. (pause) I'm still really tired even though I went to bed early. (pause) So my parish's retreat was this weekend. We left Friday right after work. (pause) (blowing nose) Excuse me. Got up to the campsite. I was feeling really antisocial, so I just went to our room and ","P1-N4001D1":"went to sleep. Dave went to the evening prayer service and hung out with people until late.
THERAPIST: I'm sorry to hear that.
CLIENT: (pause) Yeah, then in the afternoon there were activities. I signed up for what I thought was going to be helping children make crafts, but it turned out to be adults making crafts.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Making props really for Sunday school. So the way that the Sunday school program works for the younger kids is there are all of these props to deal with the various Bible stories that the kids have. So when the adult is reading the story, they put the props on the floor in order and create a ","P1-N4002B1":"kind of diorama as they're reading the story. It's nice for the kids. So we made some props for that. (pause)
THERAPIST: Bless you.
CLIENT: Excuse me. (pause)
THERAPIST: In a like (inaudible) sense.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause) And a woman at my church, she's in charge of the Sunday school program. Her kids are all grown and married and she does not understand any of her daughters at all, and is an artist. She went to art school, works as a graphic designer, has her own printing business. Her partner ","P1-N4005B1":"is an architect (chuckles) and her kids are all [pragmatists] (chuckles). One daughter is a civil engineer, another is a doctor, and she just does not get her kids at all or their interests or their hobbies. They're little space aliens to her, but they still have conversations about the things that ","P1-N4005B2":"are important to them and they tell their mom pretty much everything. Even if she doesn't understand, she's, you know, loving and supportive and that's wonderful. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, I think it makes you worried actually to talk about how upset and unjust it feels to have parents like yours. I'm not sure about this, but I wonder if you — I have no doubt you sort of thought and felt the last thing you said about it being useless, [but it also felt a little ","P1-N400631":"like bait to me to come in and disagree with or something which] —
CLIENT: Not intentionally.
THERAPIST: Yeah, sure. I know it wasn't intentionally that. But it could have got us into like a kind of back and forth about the validity of your feelings or something —
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: — which I think is less anxious than actually —
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: — putting them out there in the way you had been.
CLIENT: (long pause) Like I think in a very real sense, my parents don't understand that their children aren't their belongings.
THERAPIST: Mmmm-hmmm.
CLIENT: (long pause) I think they just fundamentally don't get that we're each our own person with our own, you know, rich inner life and hopes and dreams and desires, challenges and struggles. (sighing)
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I don't know.
THERAPIST: Well, it's one thing to know in your head and another to act that way. (long pause)
CLIENT: (sighing) (long pause)
THERAPIST: (inaudible) it's hard to talk here, even if you know in your head that I'm likely to, you know, listen or —
CLIENT: Mmmm-hmmm.
THERAPIST: — not be critical of the things that you say. I expect [essentially that you] feel like that.
CLIENT: Mmmm. Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: [You feel like I think] — or there's just this general feeling that you don't have a right to what you're saying or it's frivolous.
CLIENT: Yeah, a little bit. (long pause) To be honest, there's still a part of me that thinks that being depressed is still just a moral failing and if I just tried harder, I could stop.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (pause) I understand all the ways that's wrong, from a medical perspective.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But it still feels that way, that I should just be able to snap out of it, that I'm just malingering. (sighing) (long pause)
THERAPIST: I guess there's a way that would make therapy altogether a farce, really. (pause) I mean, if the thought is that you're just malingering essentially.
CLIENT: Mmmm-hmmm.
THERAPIST: (pause) And we both sort of, in a way, just have some kind of like bullshit idea about the value of what matters to you —
CLIENT: Right. (long pause)
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: See you on Wednesday.