TITLE: Client "B", Session June 13, 2013: Client discusses her confusion about experiences with a man she is dating and a retreat she plans to attend.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses her confusion about experiences with a man she is dating and a retreat she plans to attend.
CLIENT: (Sigh).
THERAPIST: And we're good for tomorrow at 7:45?
CLIENT: Yeah. Blah. (pause) Okay, so I feel ridiculous about last week because I feel like I ought to be old enough not to be angsty over Chris anymore. Like, I should know better by now, but I'm riddled with anxiety. It's over the way the things are going with Ashley, and I don't know what to do about ","P1-N4000F1":"it. (sigh) Blah. [00:00:50]
THERAPIST: Hm.
CLIENT: And if he's feeling pressured, then sending another e-mail saying, come on, send me a response is really not the thing to do, but I don't know. This is all just – it's harder than it needs to be. And I don't know if that's because I have anxiety issues with a capital I, or if that's because ","P1-N4001F1":"now he has anxiety issues, which he had hinted at but hasn't discussed explicitly, which you know I totally understand that. I haven't really discussed mine explicitly with him either, or if it's just because we're not right for each other. Or it could be that we're not right for each other because ","P1-N4001F2":"we both have anxiety issues, and we're both inadvertently provoking the other's issues. [00:06:24]
THERAPIST: Hm. (pause) Well, I guess I'm not yet quite sure what to say. [00:08:48]
CLIENT: He gave me a key to his apartment, but he refused to make any statement about how he feels about me. Well, any explicit verbal statement like that. (pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah, I gather it feels weird not to mirror this. [00:09:51]
CLIENT: Yeah. That really does.
THERAPIST: I noticed that you stopped talking. [00:11:33]
CLIENT: Yeah. You know, well, I feel like I've exhausted everything there is to say on the subject of Ashley other than I'm really anxious and frustrated by this whole situation, and I don't know how to fix it, but (sigh) (pause) –
THERAPIST: Well (pause) –
CLIENT: And, like, and part of the scheduling difficulty is my fault too because I'm overscheduled, and there – so I saw him on Sunday, and counting three weeks out from this past Sunday, there were only four nights that I was free, which is not a whole lot to choose from. I'm going to be out ","P1-N400311":"of town this weekend and out of town the next weekend, and I'm meeting with my student who I'm advising, and I have my regular weekly piano lesson and voice lesson, and I've booked time in the print shop, and I'm taking a print shop intensive workshop from another studio that has a different type of ","P1-N400312":"press than the one I have. And, god, what else is even going on. [00:13:07]
THERAPIST: Hm.
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Well, I guess I just found that kind of – you've made me three or four, well, but I guess he did give me a key to his apartment. He did tell me that it makes him really anxious to initiate making plans in in a way that – he made it to you that's clearly his issue, to respect about ","P1-N4003B1":"you. Well, I guess I didn't exactly ask him how he felt about me, and oh, well, yeah, I guess as it turns out I have about 7 1\/2 minutes free. The amount of time, you know (inaudible at 00:17:07). But so all those kind of afterthoughts –
CLIENT: Don't actually make me feel any less anxious.
THERAPIST: I understand but there are also –
CLIENT: (laughter).
THERAPIST: (chuckle) So it's just like she [asked that if we're in] (ph) parallel. Right, I understand they don't make you less anxious. I guess what strikes me is that you kind of tell the story one way, and then a bunch of times it's kind of, oh, well, yeah, I guess I didn't include this, but maybe ","P1-N400431":"it's kind of relevant or yeah, it could be. You know, which all pretty directly contradict the story that you're telling and absolutely, it doesn't sound like they make you less anxious, but it does make me think there's something going on. Though what, I don't know. [00:18:00]
CLIENT: Right. And I am prone to – as Dave says – trying to read goat entrails into everything.
THERAPIST: Read what trail?
CLIENT: Goat entrails.
THERAPIST: Oh, goat entrails, uh-huh.
CLIENT: The ancient divination practice with slaughtering a goat, and then trying to read the poitrine (ph) of the patterns and the entrails for (inaudible at 00:19:02). Dave accused me of that, which is a metaphor for when I try to guess at someone's intent based on probably uncorrelated other actions. ","P1-N4004F1":"Oh, you wore a green tie, and you know green is my favorite color. Therefore, you must be in love with me.
THERAPIST: Except that you tend, I think – at least that I've heard it – to read the entrails in a pretty similar way, and usually the story is something like what's going on with Ashley, I think. I mean, it's usually not about the green tie, you really like me. It's usually more like, oh, ","P1-N400511":"you wore a green tie even though I don't like green. Even though I – well, I guess I never actually told you I didn't like green, but still you wore that green tie. And now I'm teasing you obviously. [00:19:49]
CLIENT: And I take your point (sigh). And I'm going to be out of town with no Internet access all weekend, so I don't know. I kind of want this settled before I leave town tomorrow afternoon, but on the other hand if he's feeling overscheduled, and avoidant, and anxious I don't want to be pushy and ","P1-N400531":"nag him. Like, I mean even apart from that would make me look bad I don't want to make him feel bad. Like, I don't want to cause him stress and, like – and if he's feeling anywhere remotely near how I feel when I know I owe someone an e-mail but just can't bring myself to write it that's miserable. ","P1-N400532":"I don't want to add to that. But I don't know how he's feeling because he won't tell me. (sigh) Fine. I need to stop dating introverts is what I need to do. I need to find a nice, chatty, gregarious, extroverted person who talks about their feelings. [00:21:05]
THERAPIST: I think you're afraid of thinking that he really does like you and wants to spend time with you.
CLIENT: What makes you say that?
THERAPIST: Well, I mean, again, the story that you seem to tell, which seems to have a, sort of, to me, seems to have a bias in it. That seems to be part of the point of telling it that way is to not let yourself think about him being into you.
CLIENT: Oh, I see what you're saying. I don't think it's because I'm afraid that he likes me. I think it's because I'm afraid that if I let myself believe that he likes me and then I turn out to be wrong, I'll be miserable. [00:22:33]
THERAPIST: Yeah, that sounds about – I don't mean it like you're afraid of the possibility that he does. What you say sounds pretty plausible to me.
CLIENT: Yeah. I'm afraid to believe in the possibility that he does. Because what if I'm wrong?
THERAPIST: And also because I think, unfortunately, that you have a really hard time believing that he really might. I suspect you have a, kind of, like unfortunate confidence that either he doesn't now or once he gets to know a little bit, he definitely won't. And it's horrible to find that out or ","P1-N400611":"to have something happen that feels like it's finding that out, and to lose somebody you're pretty excited about seeing. It's much better to tell the story of the way you are, but you really don't know where he's coming from. It could be this, it could be that. You know, well, he's probably pulling ","P1-N400612":"away. I can see it happening. [00:24:08]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think you nailed it. (pause) Yeah, so after he sent the e-mail saying "I don't know how I feel about Thursday. I'm feeling stressed and overscheduled." And I replied with that's fine. I immediately went and booked a slot in a workshop that's happening next Thursday night that I had – [00:25:08]
THERAPIST: And it was that Thursday you were trying not to make –
CLIENT: Yep. I mean, this is a workshop I've been wanting to go to for a couple of months that happens on the third Thursday or fourth Thursday or whatever it is every month. So you know, I've always had something else going on that night, and I wanted to see Ashley more than I wanted to go to the print ","P1-N400671":"shop obviously, but well, I don't know. So it's like, okay, I get to go to this workshop now. And so Dave, who has access to my calendar – Ashley also has access to my calendar, but I don't think he actually ever looks at it – but Dave checks my calendar fairly frequently because he likes ","P1-N400672":"checking calendars. He keeps both of ours, like, meticulously up-to-date, and I don't know. It's just his thing. [00:26:00]
THERAPIST: I think the, sort of, thought and feeling about other people not wanting to be close to you is terribly painful, and you felt very shameful as well, like very ashamed, and that maybe a lot of things we do are arranged to protect yourself from feeling that way. Like, your research, like your ","P1-N4006D1":"reading Ashley's comments one way, and like, reading it another way when you're deciding which part you write. It's sort of interesting. You know, you say, okay, well, it's definitely off the table. I'll just go entertain myself with something else.
CLIENT: I'm feeling maybe things (inaudible at 00:30:10) is bad. My church's parish retreat is this weekend.
THERAPIST: Uh-huh. Oh, that's where you'll be.
CLIENT: Well, there are two women running it. And back in April, one asked me "Are you coming to the retreat?" And I said, "Oh, yes, we wouldn't miss it. I haven't been able to go for the last two years, and I love the retreat and definitely be there." And she said, "Great, fill out a registration form ","P1-N400751":"and send it to me," and then two days later, I e-mail her and I say I can't find the registration form on the website. Can you fill out a registration form for me? Here's all my information. And she said, "Sure, no problem. You know, answer these questions." I e-mailed her back and she said, "Great. ","P1-N400752":"You're all registered, just bring a check on Sunday." And I forgot to bring a check on Sunday, and then I went away for two weeks, and anyway.
THERAPIST: But remember I said that there's a corollary that operates in here, which is – and maybe I'm wrong – but my impression at least is this is not that you feel like I don't want to see you or hear from you, that is not parallel like that. But the, sort of, corollary or coordinated ","P1-N4007B1":"thing in here is it really I can't help you, there is no help for this. This is inevitable, unworkable, and I don't have the impression it's so much that I am not good enough in some way to help it. It's just sort of like it's a hopeless case, you're a hopeless case. [00:33:18]
CLIENT: I don't disagree entirely with that, but I try to be aware of that when I start feeling that way, and tell myself that that's silly. No one is hopeless.
THERAPIST: I'm not saying I think that's a silly thing to think like that. It might not push the way you think. I don't know if it's true.
CLIENT: Well, it's an incorrect thing to think.
THERAPIST: I think that as well. But I think it feels like that sometimes. [00:34:27]
CLIENT: I don't know. I'm a lot better than I used to be.
THERAPIST: Well, good.
CLIENT: That gives me hope.
THERAPIST: Good. I'm glad to hear that.
CLIENT: That reminds me. I got a letter from my insurance company this week saying that they had tried to get in touch with you?
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah, I need to call them.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I will do that.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I am mildly anxious that they're going to stop paying you, and then I'm going to have to come up with $400 a week, but really that pales in comparison to my anxieties about my relationship stuff right now. (laughter) [00:35:18]
THERAPIST: And I cannot predict what any insurance company ever will do, but I can say that in most instances like this where a company wants to check in on our treatment plan or anything like that, it's more designed to be a pain in the ass in hopes that somebody like me, sort of, won't follow up, ","P1-N4009B1":"and then they can say, "We're not going to pay for it because he never followed up." Or like, and then the (inaudible at 00:35:51) the criteria for a medical necessity or such that is really not difficult to meet them, and so that they're, kind of, required then.
CLIENT: That's reassuring. I was just scarred by the health insurance company I had at the time that refused to pay for any of the treatment around my miscarriage because I did not get it preapproved. I was hemorrhaging. I was really not worried about pre-approval.
THERAPIST: Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:36:19]
THERAPIST: This is medical treatment? Like –
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And this is an outpatient?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Wow.
CLIENT: Yeah, it took years to get them to pay my medical bills for that. It was – so I am skittish any time an insurance company says anything other than, "Yes, here's a check." (laughter)
THERAPIST: (laughter) I hear you. Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah. Yeah, that was horrible. So my response to him you are allowed to say no to things it's not my goal to cause you stress or be pushy at you. Like, that wasn't out of line, was it? [00:37:03]
THERAPIST: No. I mean, tone is hard to read in e-mail, and I don't know how he took it, but if the tone was what you're saying it to me, then genuinely you don't want him to feel pressure and you don't want him to feel obligation, and you're sort of being sympathetic to the fact that it's hard for him ","P1-N400B31":"to initiate stuff, but that doesn't obligate him to accept when you initiate it. (inaudible at 00:37:37).
CLIENT: Okay. I mean, yeah. Tone is hard to read in text sometimes, and as much as I generally write the way I talk, sometimes it doesn't come across. And as long as it's not completely out of line, I'm sure –
THERAPIST: It doesn't sound that way to me.
CLIENT: (sigh) I ran into Lucy at Ashley's place Monday night. Lucy's the woman who's engaged to Ashley's housemate who (crosstalk) –
THERAPIST: Right, and she's the one who you've been online friends with, and then –
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: Or had a connection with Lucy?
CLIENT: Yeah, yeah. But yeah, last week I was really worried that I had overstepped my bounds by including her on the list of people who I asked who would accompany me to the print shop. Did I tell you about that? [00:38:35]
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: Okay, so but yeah, when I saw her Sunday night, one of the first things she asked was did you get both nights in the print shop covered? Like, do you need someone on Thursday? I'm happy to go work on editing my book with you while you print, and I was like, okay, uh-huh. Relaxed a little bit. ","P1-N400C51":"Lucy's great. I really love I'm getting to know her.
THERAPIST: Good.
CLIENT: So just to update you on everything going on my unrequited relenting longing life, so Cricket – who I talked about a lot – I mentioned she had started dating this guy. He was in town last weekend just to provide Cricket emotional support after everything that was going on with Emmett. ","P1-N400C91":"And I got to meet him and hang out with him, and he's just a great guy. I'm so jealous, but he's a great guy. [00:39:44]
THERAPIST: Cool. Should we stop?
CLIENT: Yes, we should.
THERAPIST: I'll see you tomorrow.
CLIENT: 7:45.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: All right. Thank you.
THERAPIST: You have a good day. [00:40:26]