TITLE: Client "B", Session May 30, 2013: Client discusses her anxiety about dating other people and having difficulty knowing if they are interested.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses her anxiety about dating other people and having difficulty knowing if they are interested.
CLIENT: Hi.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Good morning.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you told me you have to drive through Fairfield to get here.
CLIENT: Fairfield? No. I'm down on Cheshire Street.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: Under the underpass, and then onto River (ph).
THERAPIST: Uh huh. Fairfield is like two hours west. I was joking. I was being facetious.
CLIENT: Oh.
THERAPIST: Fairfield is like a couple of hours to the west of here.
CLIENT: Oh, I thought you meant Fairfield Street, which is like a kind of little alley in Cheshire that (crosstalk at 00:00:41).
THERAPIST: Oh, no. [laughs]
CLIENT: Actually, it is halfway between Cambridge and Dupont Square, but...
THERAPIST: Sorry, no, I wasn't nearly that knowing.
CLIENT: [laughs]
THERAPIST: My (inaudible at 00:00:50)
CLIENT: It's like two blocks long. I was like, "Why does Brian know about Fairfield Alley? That (inaudible at 00:00:55)."
THERAPIST: [laughs]
CLIENT: [laughs]
THERAPIST: For some reason, I was thinking all that I know about it is that you live to the north, which doesn't make any sense (inaudible at 00:01:03).
CLIENT: I'm here and [that's what matters] (ph).
THERAPIST: Good. I'm glad you made it.
CLIENT: Ugh. [sighs] I don't know where to start. What should I talk about?
THERAPIST: Whatever is on your mind at the moment.
CLIENT: I couldn't forget the (inaudible at 00:01:28) coming back.
THERAPIST: Probably.
CLIENT: Ugh.
THERAPIST: I can handle a thing, even if (inaudible at 00:01:43) irrelevant or (inaudible at 00:01:44).
CLIENT: Sure, sure.
CLIENT: I don't know. [00:02:00] I don't really feel you bringing this up, because it seems like the solution is obvious but I'm having trouble accepting the obvious solution is to just calm down and chill out.
THERAPIST: The obvious advice just to initiate and to ignore that or-and what's the-apparently the obvious thing is not so obvious to me. What-?
CLIENT: Well, according to Dave, the obvious thing is to stop overthinking things and just put it out of my mind until Ashley gets back from his vacation and has Internet again.
THERAPIST: [laughs]
CLIENT: He's camping in West Virginia and has no Internet, so he can't contact me, even if he wanted to.
THERAPIST: Obviously. Okay.
CLIENT: [laughs]
THERAPIST: I know why [with me] (ph), just putting out of your mind would not occur to me as the obvious thing.
CLIENT: [laughs] Not an easy thing for me to do.
THERAPIST: Or for most of us, as far as I can tell.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:05:54) [00:06:00]
CLIENT: Yeah, I guess the thing that I'm really concerned about is what if he doesn't actually like me as much as I like him? Going on dates and sleeping with me is a fun distraction, but he doesn't actually have any drive to see me if I don't initiate.
CLIENT: There's a lot of stuff tied up in this (ph). Almost all of my relationships, I've been the asker and not the askee. Does that make sense? I asked Dave out. I'm trying to think back, all of my relationships-yeah, I did the asking, except for Jenny. She asked me out. There was almost perfect 50\/50 ","P1-N4007B1":"parody (ph) between who planned dates and initiated the, "When am I going to see you next?" conversation.
THERAPIST: With her?
CLIENT: Yeah, with Jenny. With everyone else I've dated, I've been the primary initiator. It always makes me anxious and upset. [00:08:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah, you seem to have been right about that.
CLIENT: [laughs] But being the person who is just better at wrangling schedules and figuring out when we're going to see each other again doesn't necessarily mean that I'm more interested. It just means that I'm better at that skill, but it's hard for me to believe that especially because there's ","P1-N400871":"so much social messaging about how women are supposed to be asked, not doing the asking. Certainly, in mainstream culture, it's seen as a little bit gross and desperate for a woman to do the asking in any opposite-sex relationship. [00:09:00]
THERAPIST: That would be nice (crosstalk at 00:09:19).
CLIENT: Right? Certainly, I can go into queer theory and queer relationships. You don't get to follow gender roles because you're (inaudible at 00:09:35) gender, and then there's...I could go on, in theory, for ages and ages about this stuff, and how it's wrong and stupid, but I still feel it. That's ","P1-N4008D1":"a little bit frustrating to me on a meta level, because I know I'm playing into a bunch of cultural narratives that I don't believe in, and yet I can't stop myself from playing into them. [00:10:00]
THERAPIST: Yeah, clearly you'd much prefer to handle or even talk here about this situation with Ashley in a kind of conceptual way, whether to do with our culture and society or, I don't know, even dating (inaudible at 00:12:15) person like (inaudible at 00:12:15).
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I think that's probably coming, in a way, you're kind of trying to ward off even talking about it, as well as in the moments when you're thinking about what you could do for out there, because it's really disconcerting. [00:13:11]
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: I guess there are two things that make you really anxious in the question whether how to reach out to him. [00:14:00]
CLIENT: Yep. I don't like that feeling.
THERAPIST: You don't know what to believe, sure.
CLIENT: I have evidence that I have misread interpersonal situations pretty dramatically incorrectly before, in the past. [00:15:01]
CLIENT: I could (inaudible at 00:15:49) up other situations where I thought someone was hitting on me and when I broached the topic, they were appalled and horrified, or situations where I didn't realize someone was interested in me and found out weeks or months after the fact that they were really ","P1-N400B31":"disappointed that I didn't get the message. [00:16:09] Situations where the person explicitly told me what they were feeling or thinking.
CLIENT: On the other hand, I don't know how to ask for just clear, explicit communication without sounding completely neurotic. [00:18:00]
CLIENT: I find it's really easier to acquire clear, explicit communication around sex than around emotional things. It's very easy for me to ask direct yes or no questions, like, "May I kiss you?" "May I take off your shirt?" etc., when they're about physical actions. "I want to know how you really ","P1-N400C31":"feel about me," is much, much harder to ask probably a lot more invasive, too, I don't know.
THERAPIST: Just because of the context, I would think that it's easier to ask somebody about sexual stuff. Is it clear why that (inaudible at 00:20:56) concrete, if it was intrusive, because (inaudible at 00:20:59) didn't like, particularly after the first question. At the context it's at, it sounds ","P1-N400CB1":"like the questions are appropriate.
CLIENT: Right. Yeah. The context does make it pretty obvious when the next question is appropriate and when it's not.
THERAPIST: Is that a big part, you think, of what makes it easier?
CLIENT: I think so. It's almost pretty obvious-it's almost always really obvious when asking the question won't be received badly. The answer might be, "No," but it's okay to have asked the question, right?
THERAPIST: Right, yeah. [00:22:00] If the person's shirt is off and you ask them to take their pants off...
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: ...they could say, "No," but not like the question came out of nowhere.
CLIENT: Right, right. The first time I had sex with Ashley, we were at my place. We were going to go out for dinner, but the restaurant we wanted to go to was really packed, so we decided to just order take-out and take it back to my place.
THERAPIST: I'm smiling because that just reminds me-is it Woody Allen, maybe, where it's this married couple that's in bed and he tries to initiate something but his wife it's Woody Allen, I think, or (inaudible at 00:23:07) like, "Not here!" in bed together.
CLIENT: Right, right.
THERAPIST: Which that may be (inaudible at 00:23:18) exactly your point, that context.
CLIENT: Sure. It might very well have been that I misread the situation and our personal space level were just differently aligned. He might have said, "No," but I was reasonably confident that the question would not be taken poorly.
THERAPIST: Right, which does seem like it's your concern in fact relates to all the examples you gave, where you wound up feeling you were just really on a different page from the other person and hadn't known it.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:24:00]
THERAPIST: In a way, that made somebody feel bad.
CLIENT: Right usually me.
THERAPIST: Not mostly in the situation with the friend of yours who thought you were on a date, but I understand that mostly (inaudible at 00:24:27).
CLIENT: I think this all ties back in to I really don't like looking foolish. When it's become apparent that I've completely misread a situation, I feel foolish and I feel as though everyone around me thinks I'm foolish. [00:25:00]
THERAPIST: I'm sure you're right about that being a central part of this. I also think there's something else which may kind of converge with that or may be different.
CLIENT: Well, that sounds about right for me.
THERAPIST: When these kind of disconnects happen, like you're talking about, in addition to feeling quite shameful, it also points at this sense of alienation or affirms it in some way. [00:27:09]
THERAPIST: It's quite painful.
THERAPIST: Probably tying with some sense of there's something very much the matter with you.
CLIENT: Mm-hmm.
THERAPIST: What's on your mind?
CLIENT: Oh, I'm just thinking about I still haven't decided whether it would be better to e-mail Ashley a couple days after he gets back from his camping trip and say, "Do you want to go to the singing event together on Sunday and hang out after ?" or let it sit and wait for him to contact me.
THERAPIST: Are you saying in part that you're sort of frustrated with me, like, "Ask Josh if (inaudible at 00:30:00) let's talk about that. Apparently he forgets."
CLIENT: [laughs]
THERAPIST: [laughs]
CLIENT: Maybe a little bit, but certainly that was not the conscious motivation. I don't know. I can kind of get obsessive about certain questions and just not let them go and worry even arbitrarily long amounts of time and not be able to let them go.
CLIENT: I think the real problem here is just this underlying sense of alienation and not understanding how people work. How do I fix that? Is there any cure for feeling fundamentally alienated from the rest of humanity? Is there a way to not feel alienated or is just something that I have to come to ","P1-N401271":"terms with and accept?
THERAPIST: At first. [00:32:00]
CLIENT: Yeah (ph)?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: How does that work?
THERAPIST: In a very general way. Okay, there's ideology and there's intervention. Ideologically and for somebody else, in the version of it that we're talking about-well, it's actually (inaudible at 00:32:40) about any version. It probably comes a lot from experience, starting very early. I find ","P1-N401311":"myself thinking of, which I meant a few minutes ago before you asked, is that you probably very often felt like the people you were closest to were just not in it with you or on the same page with you, in some very fundamental way. [00:33:11]
CLIENT: Yep.
THERAPIST: That's not just what you expect, but how it probably feels. [00:34:05] That doesn't just shape what you expect from people, though it does shape that. It also affects what it's like to be with other people. Sometimes, even you are able to then do things that confirm that or that sort of produce ","P1-N401391":"that outcome. That's ideology.
THERAPIST: Sort of involved attending to the ways that somebody's (inaudible at 00:35:52), why a thing or dynamic in their life. [00:36:00]
THERAPIST: Where you (inaudible at 00:36:15) come forth to confirm in a very emotional, usually anxiety-filled way (inaudible at 00:36:22) rest of us. How this crops out, how it bothers you, and that helps you work it through. For example I'm just making this up, well not entirely worried today ","P1-N401431":"(ph) talking to me about something that seems dumb to talk about.
CLIENT: Right.