TITLE: Client "B", Session May 29, 2013: Client discusses a recent family trip and everything that went wrong during it. Client discusses her difficulty getting work done before and after her recent vacation.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses a recent family trip and everything that went wrong during it. Client discusses her difficulty getting work done before and after her recent vacation.
CLIENT: My family. They're horrible. They're just horrible human beings. They're petty and passive-aggressive and condescending and have absolutely no consideration for other human beings. [sighs]
CLIENT: I guess it's easier to talk about various drama happening in my friends' group than to deal with the Gordian's Knot that is my family. But I feel like I ought to be talking about my family, because it's the thing that's causing me the most long-term distress right now.
THERAPIST: I can imagine it's also why you don't want about it. [00:02:01]
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: In part, I'm late this morning because I was chatting online with a friend of mine who is having "Days of Our Lives"-level soap opera drama in her life. It was easier to provide a sounding board for her than to think about my own self and prepare for coming here.
THERAPIST: I hunch that you stay a bit clear off, most of the time, from what it's actually really like to be with them; and that, as a result, it's always in part a really rude awakening when you see them or spend time with them.
CLIENT: Maybe. I was pretty anxious and full of dread about this trip beforehand.
THERAPIST: Yep, yeah. I remember, yeah.
CLIENT: I feel like I was well-aware of how horrible it would be. [00:04:00]
CLIENT: Even apart from my parents, the trip was just horrible.
THERAPIST: Oh, really?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Oh, that's too bad.
CLIENT: The tour operator we went with, Explorer we spent about half of each day in government-run factories, being given the hard sell on various overpriced, low-quality garbage.
THERAPIST: Oh my God.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It's really too bad.
CLIENT: "Learn about how jade is produced!" except really, it's just a showroom on a factory floor with overpriced, low-quality crap that they're trying to force you to buy and (crosstalk at 00:04:42).
THERAPIST: Oh, that's such a shame.
CLIENT: "Learn about Italy's long history of silk production!" except really, they're just trying to sell you $10,000 silk bed sheets.
THERAPIST: Which city were you in? [00:05:00]
CLIENT: We spent three days in Rome, two days in Milan and then two days in Venice. Three days in Venice.
THERAPIST: Right. That's too bad, because the family stuff kind of probably had to be more or less the way it was, but that didn't...
CLIENT: Yeah. On the other hand, being with a tour group means that we actually ate. The three meals that the tour didn't provide, that they left us on our own for, my family just didn't eat. [00:07:00] Because my dad thinks the way to cure his diabetes is to not eat, ever. And he thinks if he's not ","P1-N400591":"eating, no one else should have to eat, ever. Also, he thinks we're all too fat, so it would do us good to go on a fasting diet for a week.
CLIENT: Also, my dad tried to convince me to inject insulin after every meal, because he's convinced that he's diabetic because I'm fat even though my A1C and blood sugar levels are perfectly fine and at the low end of the healthy range. But, you know, he's a doctor and he can diagnose these things ","P1-N4005D1":"without any lab results, even though endocrinology is not his specialty seizures are. Pretty sure seizures and diabetes are not correlated (inaudible at 00:07:54).
THERAPIST: And you don't have those either.
CLIENT: No, I don't. [00:08:00] Yeah, Dad.
CLIENT: There were twenty-four of us on this tour; we got a table of eight at every meal. And we, the six of us, my family my sisters, my parents, Dave, and I always got sat with the Polish couple, because the tour organizers wanted all the people with special dietary requirements at the same table, ","P1-N4006D1":"just to make logistics easier on them. [00:10:01]
THERAPIST: They were horrible?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: The woman started talking to my mom about grandkids and how her son was so selfish and waited six years after getting married before giving her grandkids. And, "How long have your daughters been married? Have they given you grandkids yet?"
THERAPIST: Maybe you're also worried that I'll be kind of embarrassed for you or, internally, in a way, won't want to deal with the crazy lady either, if you go on a rant about the trip or your family (inaudible at 00:15:34).
CLIENT: [sighs]
CLIENT: All of that is only the tip of the iceberg, too. There was just so much.
CLIENT: In particular, Penelope who I think I've mentioned before, a woman who I would like to be dating had tweeted briefly at me-
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:19:01) college?
CLIENT: Yeah. I had tweeted to her earlier, saying-she had said she was back from the conference. I said, "Welcome back, how was your con?" She was like, "That's a really complicated question that we should talk about in person. Want to get together for tea later?" And I said, "Sure. Should we take ","P1-N400AD1":"this offline for scheduling?" And she said, "Sure," and so I pinged her on IM and she didn't respond and didn't respond. Then, three hours later, she was like, "Too busy, talk later." I was like, "You know, you initiated this, but..."
THERAPIST: I think this is worse than "malaise." [00:20:00]
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: [I didn't know] (ph).
CLIENT: Which isn't to say we're going to stop being or anything. I still like her a great deal and care about her very much, but perhaps dating her wouldn't be wise.
THERAPIST: I imagine it also felt like as much as it might have been stressful to hear what was going on with her, a bit of relief to feel like-after how awful and probably disturbing (inaudible at 00:22:16) like, "Somebody else had the crazy for a while."
CLIENT: [laughs] Yeah. Yeah. But I know I shouldn't compare people to each other, and every relationship is different and people are different and so on and so forth. But comparing Penelope to Ashley and how remarkably chill he is. I'm friends with several of his ex-girlfriends and have heard the inside ","P1-N400C71":"scoop on two of his past breakups. Breakups are never fun and never easy, but-
THERAPIST: He's pretty chill.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's great.
CLIENT: There have been no mad explosions of drama around him since his early 20s. [00:23:04] Who doesn't have that when they're 23? [sighs]
CLIENT: But yeah, (inaudible at 00:23:26) people.
THERAPIST: You must be completely overwhelmed.
CLIENT: I had a list as long as my arm of things I wanted to get done yesterday. E-mails that needed to be sent and errands that needed to be run and stuff that needed to be done around the house. I took the day off work-
THERAPIST: Were you not at work? Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, I took yesterday off work, because I knew I'd be too jet-lagged to get work done. But I thought, at the very least, I could-"I'll review this grant proposal for a friend," and make suggestions and fire off a couple e-mails related to my fraternity stuff. Clear out my desk. [sighs] Various ","P1-N400DF1":"apartment stuff. [00:25:00]
THERAPIST: Or you were recovering from (inaudible at 00:25:18) with your family.
CLIENT: I don't know why I thought I was going to be able to get stuff done yesterday. I'm never able to get stuff done after seeing my family, even without the jet lag and 22-hour travel interlude to contend with. Or the stomach illness from eating bad food in Venice which I'm still not recovered ","P1-N400E51":"from, it's quite unpleasant.
THERAPIST: I think it happened when you...started talking about work. You started to sound instead of upset as you did when you were talking about your trip like a little more flat or even a little glib, I think.
THERAPIST: I guess that probably partly what gave me the impression though I didn't sort of put it together that way of how overwhelmed you felt. But I think something that goes along with that sort of a shift is a feeling that you should just be able to do or handle everything. [00:28:04] That ","P1-N400F11":"it's really on you.
CLIENT: I definitely do feel that way. I don't know, Dave tells me that this belief is crazy, but I certainly believe that whatever is going on in my life, emotionally or personally, I should be able to box it up and set it aside and get work done, because work has to get done.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:28:32)
CLIENT: The work does have to get done, or I'll get fired. I need to have a job so I can have a paycheck so I can pay my rent and have food to eat.
THERAPIST: Right, right. [00:29:00] But usually actions are less of a subject to be mucked (ph) with. In other words, it's easier to milk cows if you're sad or if you're distracted than it is to do anything (inaudible at 00:29:17).
CLIENT: Fair enough.
CLIENT: I want to be able to do the Vulcan thing of just logically processing my emotions, dealing with them, getting them out of the way, and then being able to do my work.
THERAPIST: That would be great.
CLIENT: How do I get there?
THERAPIST: [laughs] Oh, we're out of time! [laughs]
CLIENT: [laughs]
THERAPIST: We really are. [laughs]
CLIENT: [laughs] Fair enough.
THERAPIST: I don't think it works like that. I understand how that would be helpful.
CLIENT: Yeah. [00:30:00] All right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:30:01)
CLIENT: I'm going to do my best to be outside. Sorry. Have a great day.
THERAPIST: Yeah, you too.
CLIENT: Take care.
THERAPIST: You too.