TITLE: Client "R", Session May 13, 2013: Client discusses how going to therapy negatively affects their marriage.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses how going to therapy negatively affects their marriage.
CLIENT: I would prefer not to, but –
THERAPIST: Yeah. (inaudible).
CLIENT: I had a dream on Saturday. I don’t remember much of it, but your office was in a bedroom at my mom’s childhood house – my grandparent’s house and you were sitting on the bed and I was like standing up and you were being so tough. (Pause) Like both a little distracted ","P1-N400111":"and (Pause) tough, like calling out – I don’t remember anything that was really said, but I remember feeling –
THERAPIST: Yeah. (Unclear) supportive of saying things that I thought would hurt.
CLIENT: Yeah. You were being challenging. It wasn’t out of line but it was one extreme of a spectrum you actually are on. (Pause) Friday we went to Los Angeles on the bus (unclear) and we stayed in a Marriott. Something I wanted to do. We had accumulated a lot of Marriott points from our wedding ","P1-N400151":"paying for various guests for many, many days.
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: My mom’s. It’s what she wanted to do with those points.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (Unclear) joke in there, the accumulated Marriott –
CLIENT: What is Marriott?
THERAPIST: Oh, like “marry it.”
CLIENT: Oh, (laughs).
CLIENT: I got distracted by the comment because I found the (unclear) to be more interesting at the moment.
CLIENT: Leaving my family is very bad and hard. And my heart like sunk a lot for many hours and then I got buoyant again. But that was Saturday when it happened. We were supposed to leave Sunday but my parents were leaving Saturday and we were going to stay another night. Then Wednesday I wanted to ","P1-N400291":"go to lab, and we had this very intense concert last night and I didn’t want to go to the concert and travel on the same day.
THERAPIST: A concert you played in or –
CLIENT: No a concert we attended. And that dream came on Saturday night.
CLIENT: And I was feeling pretty dysphoric on Sunday.
CLIENT: Jeremy isn’t sick very often.
THERAPIST: What was wrong with him?
CLIENT: He had a cold. He gets them really badly and he refuses to like symptom manage. He really wanted to go to this concert so we bought him some Sudafed for the first time and he took four.
THERAPIST: That’s a lot.
CLIENT: Yeah. He took two and he took two more right after.
CLIENT: And going to lab on Sundays really sucks because public transportation systems die on Sunday and yeah, it just reminds me of how much I could use a car on Sunday only.
CLIENT: But the concert was pretty cool.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: So this Flying Lotus – Alice Coltrane’s nephew – John Coltrane’s wife, is an electronic producer who is also a pop artist and Darren’s musician, and makes this incredibly textured compositions using all aspect of all three of the forms and he performed using these ","P1-N4004B1":"incredible live shows that are like nonstop like for an hour and he was working with two visual artists at the time who used like a translucent screen on which the artist projected images and then on an opaque screen behind him another artist projected images onto that and the images were different ","P1-N4004B2":"and were very like in harmony. And he was in the middle with like his laptop trigger, mixer, foot pedals. It was a very, it was kind of a drug-oriented theme which was fine – like made me a little uncomfortable. But I find his music to be very erotic. I always have for years and years and there’s ","P1-N4004B3":"something about making love while his music is playing that is like so centering and like makes me feel whole or something. Jeremy really wanted to have sex yesterday and I couldn’t do it while he was sick but then at some point we turned on “Flying Lotus” and then we could. The concert ","P1-N4004B4":"was like that too.
CLIENT: But like if you move a little bit you feel like (Pause) I don’t know like he’s making love to me and I make love to everybody else and fuck myself or something.
CLIENT: Last night I had a terrible dream that I also don’t remember too much of but it was this really dysphoric, terrible theme at Vassar as William’s reunion is coming up and my brother was horrified that we weren’t going, not going. I was feeling b badly about his reaction through ","P1-N400531":"the whole weekend. So the dream was about Vassar reunions which was about this pageantry like I don’t know how much I need to go into it but like 80,000 people get to come back every year.
THERAPIST: Whoa.
CLIENT: There is this long, historic, like some historic traditions it’s very like we are the center of the world kind of thing and there are panel discussions and seminars and a long parade and like the oldest classes have volunteered for one of them for many years. Like the Class of 1928, all ","P1-N400571":"the living members will show up and like (unclear) usually a member of every class present. And then it’s just like this huge shit show at night. Everybody’s wearing like these matching your year Vassar jacket and there’s music and the campus completely changes like they put up all ","P1-N400572":"these gorgeous wooden fences and like you can’t get anywhere, like it takes forever to get through them. I had to play music like at three out of the five years and all of the ones when I was a student. As children we grew up going to the fireworks display. Anyway, my brother has more tolerance ","P1-N400573":"for that sort of stuff than I do and Jeremy has no tolerance for it. And it’s five days long and one of those days is his birthday. So we’re not going. I probably would have gone by myself if (unclear). So the dream was that reunion and Jeremy was sick like both maybe from an illness and ","P1-N400574":"because he had taken some weird drug or something. We were like running or falling down this long outdoor stairwell and Jeremy gets to the end of the stairwell and starts like throwing up and my mom comes like running with all these empty Tupperware’s which is like – is a really like sweet ","P1-N400575":"and accurate way of picturing like my mom in one of her elements. It was like she just cooked this huge feast and also she’s been saving like 25 Tupperwares for all the people who are around to take food home. She comes running with these Tupperwares and she is like is horrified to see that Jeremy ","P1-N400576":"is this sick and like tripping or something and I start like spitting as I’m salivating a lot for some reason and also maybe because I have taken the drug. And everything feels unsafe and scary and very sad and bad and somehow we like go into this very small space and this huge black man is like ","P1-N400577":"knocks at the door and is like 8 feet tall and his face is like so scary and he enters and then I woke up and had a couple of hours of very invasive, racing thoughts.
THERAPIST: (inaudible?)
CLIENT: Not as much as when I was taking antidepressants. I would say it used to be like once or twice a week, now it’s maybe like once every two weeks. What’s bad about it is when I wake up I can’t close my eyes because I go like right back into the dream and I can’t keep my ","P1-N4005B1":"eyes open because I’m exhausted and my brain is like – there’s like, ‘this is a thought. My brain produces thoughts. This is another thought.’ So like that muscle is getting stronger and stronger which is really nice. But then the rest of it is like I’m trying to ","P1-N4005B2":"like being and having some stillness through it and every other – the visual aspect of it is so powerful so I can’t like have a blank mind. There’s always like for hours there’s always like scene after scene. Every scene happens to be one that like is scary for me. Last night ","P1-N4005B3":"is like being at the top of the mountain at Yosemite or being in the rain forest in Costa Rica or being in our apartment which is somehow really scary and I was trying to like, there must be something I can visualize that won’t seem scary, and I couldn’t find it. This is the place that wasn’t ","P1-N4005B4":"so scared that I was charged, that didn’t feel very restful.
CLIENT: Leaves. Green leaves I think is what I got to before I (unclear).
THERAPIST: Let it go.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I guess I was just thinking about (unclear) and your weekend and
CLIENT: (Unclear) a good weekend.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah I got into lab at 8 on Friday and we got to New York at 6. We left at 3 and we went back to lab at 9 on Saturday. Left at 3 p.m. on Saturday.
THERAPIST: Went back to lab on Saturday night?
CLIENT: I got back to lab on Sunday and had to play the concert Sunday night and then the concert and we got home like at 12:30. And I could have easily stayed home the entire weekend and not done any of those things and I would have been very happy.
THERAPIST: The sort of possibility of just being at home and enjoying yourself?
THERAPIST: It is a lot about the weekend especially (unclear) Sunday is just how over stimulating it was.
CLIENT: Yeah. And dysphoric. Maybe one caused the other but there is (inaudible). That was a strong feeling.
CLIENT: When we got home from the concert I asked Jeremy to help me with that question. This is like classic sort of why Jeremy is so special in his own way. It’s like, ‘Jeremy, it’s really bothering me that I’m feeling (unclear). Like I used to feel like I had more purpose, ","P1-N4007F1":"and now I don’t. Would you help me?’ We lie there for a while. This is in the dark. We’re lying down. And he was like, “purpose.” What a weird word. What if it was spelled p-e-r-p-i-s-s. We both started laughing. Purpose – what if it was spelled – like one or ","P1-N4007F2":"more spellings and then I was like what if it was spelled like “tortoise” but like p-o-r-p-o-i-s-e and he was like, “porpoise?” Do you know what a porpoise is? And I said, ‘no.’ And he said porpoise is like a dolphin and we started talking about dolphins and Jeremy’s ","P1-N4007F3":"like, “good night.” (Laughs)
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: And like 10 seconds later he’s like, ‘oh wait – what’s your porpoise?’ (Laughs)
THERAPIST: (Laughs)
CLIENT: And then he offers, ‘well, I don’t know if we have to have a porpoise but yours could be something like to love and be loved. Or like to do good work and I was like, ‘eh – good night.’
THERAPIST: Pretty cool.
CLIENT: Pretty classic.
CLIENT: It helped a little.
CLIENT: We talked more about how stressful this therapy is for us and he really wants to support me. It’s really hard for him because he wants to support me and doesn’t have anything to say about it but he (unclear). And it bothers him that I had agreed to things and then gone back on those ","P1-N400931":"agreements multiple times. So like there’s this history of reneging and ignoring boundaries. Then there’s like the fact that this relationship is so intense and it makes him feel weird and uncomfortable. And then there’s something that I didn’t really know which was bothering ","P1-N400932":"him is all I talk about is therapy and meditation and my work a little bit. Well all I think about is therapy and meditation and my work and I think I talk about therapy and meditation. I think that really sucks for him. I think he (unclear) wants to talk about therapy at all. Sometimes we talk about ","P1-N400933":"meditation but very little. (Pause) I mean, I can just tell like how much he doesn’t want to be hurtful because he’s not pursuing this directly. He’s just sort of speaking up when I make some room for it.
THERAPIST: But he’s not sort of initiating taking it up as an issue of (unclear).
CLIENT: No. No. Like he will be really upset when we start talking about it but I think he’s avoiding it. But anyway, I made it clear that l need this to be workable between the two of us in order to keep going because it’s too much to not have his support on it. He said, ‘I thought ","P1-N400971":"I married an Indian, not a [Windian] (ph). Why are you – like you’re stuck in a computer age world.’ And then I went on and on and on about how meditation is 2500 years old and psychotherapy is quite old and I guess we talked about it more later and I guess what he meant was things ","P1-N400972":"that are sort of fashionable right now for people in the country in a way that like maybe neither of us would have predicted that I would be so interested in both practices. So, anyway, like I’m processing too much for him, doing too much (unclear) processing.
THERAPIST: I guess I sort of figuring out the relations between that – like how much progress you’re doing and how on one side and what it is in particular that you’re processing and sort of how that effects you and between you and Jeremy. In other words, I guess I feel like there ","P1-N4009B1":"is something that’s getting left out a little bit you know, where the two of you are talking about the form of that the processing is taking.
CLIENT: Yeah, but (Unclear).
THERAPIST: Yeah not what’s being processed and how I think that’s pretty central to what’s going on. In other words –
CLIENT: Well, I think this is like how I experience things. I don’t think this is like unique to me feeling experiences. Like whenever there’s every anything going on I feel I sort of chew it over and over again out loud and like worrying about it and he thinks about it and I think about ","P1-N400A11":"it myself, we talk about it from many angles. I mean the way a lot of people experience the world and make decisions.
THERAPIST: I’m smiling because like I think I could get a sense from what I’ve seen of you of what you mean. Like, ‘okay then, let’s deal with this.’ Like this way and that way and another way and how about this way?
CLIENT: And I’m not sure that in here that is what’s central. I think I’m hearing him say, ‘I need to not hear about this stuff in the way that you like to talk about things.’ So the things I’m processing are like things it’s so frustrating to not know the things ","P1-N400A51":"I want to know about you.’
CLIENT: That’s something that I feel I need to talk about every day.
THERAPIST: You talk about that with him.
CLIENT: With anyone. But there aren’t that many people I can talk about it with including Jeremy, I guess. So that’s like one category that like is endless for me. There is like isolated realizing different things and things coming up that felt important. I’m noticing my relationship ","P1-N400AD1":"with my mom is changing a little bit. Like I talk a little bit about that as a result of our work here, I think. So it’s not just about you. There’s a lot of like (unclear), that sort of stuff – relationships, dysphoria, feeling unsettled thoughts and feelings. And then with meditation ","P1-N400AD2":"it’s similar it’s I guess about practice, what practice is like and (unclear) with different people, what different teachers say. I don’t know.
THERAPIST: Is it about what you’re doing, what your experience of practice is?
CLIENT: Yeah, there’s a little thorn in the meditation talk because then I said that he knows that (unclear) meditation will help him so much but he can’t get (unclear) to it. So we’re not supposed to talk about meditation at all because it’s driving him away from it, but –
THERAPIST: You can’t.
CLIENT: I can’t.
THERAPIST: And other things you have been thinking and talking with him to do with what you learn about me, the things we were talking about the other day, are there other things?
CLIENT: No. Some (inaudible), the things we talk about every day, so there’s a lot.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
THERAPIST: When you talk about it is it in a frustrated way or a sad way or a thoughtful way or -
CLIENT: Sometimes it comes out as like unbearable sadness, like where I’m trying not to talk about it but then I just can’t contain it anymore.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I would imagine you’re actually working extremely hard to try to contain all of it.
CLIENT: Yeah, I am. Sometimes it comes out as thoughtfulness.
THERAPIST: And I think you’re really overwhelmed and that like comes out wanting to talk to Jeremy or managing how much you do, but you can’t help it.
CLIENT: I mean that’s sort of why this is useful for me because it’s a way that I – well, I don’t know. It’s hard to explain. It’s sort of the same reason why processing here happens because it’s all part of the same person like I process things here but I also ","P1-N400CB1":"process this elsewhere and I process this here too.
CLIENT: I think I just need like a therapy friend.
CLIENT: Or like I need to come here all the time.
THERAPIST: Is there some kind of like sort of parallel with what was going on with you and me and you and Jeremy where you’re feeling very much on the outside with me and he’s feeling on the outside with you?
CLIENT: Yeah. (Unclear) with us, he is feeling on the outside.
THERAPIST: And I think what you’re absorbed with in other things than him in that he sort of is apparently on the outside of. And it’s hurtful and sad and frustrating and upsetting for him.
CLIENT: Yeah, I think he like doesn’t understand why I have to see you. I mean it sounds similar to me how you feel with me.
CLIENT: Right, except you’re not like going through this (unclear) and personal growth which you have to be the one (unclear) obsessed with it.
THERAPIST: It’s like you have good reasons.
CLIENT: I have –
THERAPIST: I mean, you’re like – I’m being a little (unclear), you have – this isn’t quite right – you have reasons for doing things that leave him feel this way.
CLIENT: Well, am like self-driven.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: One of the reasons why your reasons are frustrating is because like they’re self-driven, not that you’ve agreed to them. But they are, maybe for my sake –
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: Which is like frustrating to me like shouldn’t I have some say in what happens for my sake? So like you have all these – you’re like making all these decisions about all these things for my sake. Yeah, so it’s not like, ‘Jeremy, you’re on the outside because ","P1-N400F11":"it’s good for you.’ Like, you’re in my (unclear) because it’s good for me.
THERAPIST: You’re on the outside because I say it’s good for you.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I see, so in that way some of the feeling of being on the outside is similar – the reasons are much more maddening.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: But there’s definitely like a wait and see aspect to both, which is very hard.
THERAPIST: Yeah, like something that’s (unclear).
CLIENT: I guess I made it seem last time like I was being happy and comfortable with that but I –
THERAPIST: I don’t think so, yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) like the ways I’m keeping you on the outside are (inaudible), they’re saddening, they’re frustrating, creating not very well motivated (inaudible) right now.
CLIENT: Something else to add.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: It’s more, I mean – that’s all true but I feel like I have I have this feeling like I could really enrich your life and you could really enrich mine in ways other than (inaudible).
CLIENT: Not so much that like there are boundaries and there are boundaries that are your boundaries but I think there is something on the other side that’s worth (inaudible).
THERAPIST: It sounds like there are a couple of very important things that you are sort of getting at there that I probably like, I’m not that sure about and it would be helpful to know more about (inaudible) or not.
CLIENT: It just sounded that way before this (unclear) thing.
THERAPIST: I said something like that?
CLIENT: Well, like you’ve added like why I think we are compatible.
THERAPIST: Oh, yeah. That’ not –
THERAPIST: You’re, I guess, you’re saying that I am really not, I’m really unable to appreciate or (unclear) overlooking something that could come out of it for both of us because of who you are and who I am, like particularly, and that seems more like me missing something and a wasted ","P1-N401291":"opportunity and it seems like you’re just putting (unclear) and frustrated (unclear).
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible), Yeah, and it’s harder then that I don’t seem to get (inaudible) the first time.
CLIENT: Is that a question or you’re telling me you don’t get it.
THERAPIST: Checking that that’s how it seems.
CLIENT: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or like you can’t get it because it’s very (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Yeah. Like because the kind of blinders I have that come with my role, or it’s like considering how (Pause) (inaudible) stuff about you and me and how we are (unclear).
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think you’re doing the right thing (inaudible). I guess what I’m saying is that I can appreciate how I would (inaudible) things like that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that, and so like (unclear).
THERAPIST: I imagine it’s pretty hurtful to like –
CLIENT: It felt bad last time because of how on the outside I felt. I feel.
THERAPIST: I felt bad. At least my sense was like sad. Anyway, go ahead – I didn’t mean to interrupt you.
CLIENT: You felt sad or maybe sad.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (Pause): [00:51:14 00:51:33]
THERAPIST: That was incredibly bad for you and it made me sad.
CLIENT: But being (unclear) for me after that was – I wonder if you’re sad and surprised or sad and not surprised.
CLIENT: Like if you’re sad and surprised that points to an (unclear) reaction to all of this, being something that you aren’t at (unclear), that you can’t predict and you weren’t predicting well. And I have the impression that there’s not anything formulaic about this but ","P1-N401571":"in have the impression that you should fully expect this level of intensity and sadness and hurt from me and so why is it making you sad? But I don’t actually feel that way. I guess I feel a little annoyed. Like don’t me sad because it’s going to make me sad. Does that make sense?
THERAPIST: I should stop, yeah.
CLIENT: No. You shouldn’t stop.
CLIENT: (inaudible)
THERAPIST: But I mean the things that we’re talking about in a way that surprised me to step out and say things that I think will offer closure in much of a reassuring way, but I will think more about the things that I think you’d be missing when we’re talking about Jeremy. Also, say ","P1-N401631":"that – and I think you know this as well. I don’t quite see myself like sitting here doing things to make you sad in a way that you’re kind of (unclear) framing it.
CLIENT: I think the really angry part of me brings about (unclear). None of the other (inaudible). And I’m overwhelmingly sad and frustrated and not (inaudible).
THERAPIST: Yeah. I also – one other sort of quick thing then I’ll just sort of before everything gets lost is – I think in your dream on Saturday night I think that you were actually reaching for me in my harshness to help you deal with separating from your parents.
CLIENT: I think so.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Like I wanted your harshness?
THERAPIST: Yeah, like you knew me in a mode that felt that way was like someone who is the closest thing you have to being together with somebody and feeling bad with him and –
CLIENT: Can you start at 3:30 on Thursday?
THERAPIST: Let me check. How come?
CLIENT: It’s not important. I’m going to see a friend who is a sculptor and is giving a graduate show and I need to catch a train (unclear).
THERAPIST: Okay. I’ll see what I can do.
CLIENT: (inaudible). Thanks. Bye.