TITLE: Client "R", Session February 13, 2013: Client talks about anxiety in her everyday life, her spouse, and her therapy.
DESCRIPTION: Client talks about anxiety in her everyday life, her spouse, and her therapy.
CLIENT: How are you?
THERAPIST: I'm okay. Thank you again for the lemon squares. They were very good.
CLIENT: You're welcome.
THERAPIST: And I have a piece of bad news from Blue Cross which is that...
CLIENT: Me too. (inaudible at 00:00:22).
THERAPIST: I'm sorry and surprised. I feel bad about it. I've not seen them do that before. The situation last year where I was out of network for a months it's a long story but I had to write similar things and they didn't nag them. And I had talked to other people who had left Blue Cross around ","P1-N400151":"that time to find out if it would be a problem to get people covered who I haven't seen and they said no as long you agree to the in-network rate. What's the downside for them. So anyway, but I feel like I was I was, I think, quite optimistic with you about getting good news from them so I feel bad ","P1-N400152":"that I was entirely wrong about what's going to happen. [00:01:28]
CLIENT: It's okay.
THERAPIST: And I don't know if it's a new policy for this year or what the story is.
CLIENT: Yeah. I could appeal it. I don't know if I'm going to. (Pause) It seems like a strange thing to convey to an insurance company. (Pause) You almost have to be (inaudible at 00:02:21) or something. (Pause) Yeah, I don't know what to say about it. [00:02:34]
THERAPIST: You look kind of torn.
CLIENT: (Pause) Do you have a patient (inaudible at 00:02:51)?
THERAPIST: (Pause) What?
CLIENT: I've had a lot of things around my mind lately. Yeah. [00:03:06]
THERAPIST: Well (pause) tell me and if we need to find more time to meet later today or (inaudible at 00:03:28).
CLIENT: Okay. (Pause) I don't know what to say. (Pause) I wish you could upload my brain. [00:04:08]
THERAPIST: When did you get the letter?
CLIENT: I got the letter yesterday night. It felt like it came at a time where there's already so much (pause) up and down. So in the context of that it didn't feel like a really moving experience to get the letter but it did feel a little shitty. [00:08:17]
THERAPIST: No. I think you're terribly upset.
CLIENT: I think I would've felt upset before the letter came. I don't know what kind of effect the letter is.
THERAPIST: Okay. I think you're really upset on both accounts. (Pause)
CLIENT: I cried during my sitting time Monday. It was a long and arduous sitting (pause) full of existential doubts. The same question keeps coming up with you. If you let your thoughts and feelings go what would it mean and is it worth being presented? [00:10:35]
THERAPIST: No. No it's not. Go ahead.
CLIENT: I've been trying to pay attention to times when I might be experiencing joy in the face of this suffering. Not like happiness or even joy but even just like stillness like does it ever feel okay. [00:11:36]
THERAPIST: (Pause) Okay. So I have some thoughts about where you may be getting stuck. It seems to me that whatever was going on that was making you cry on Monday in addition to the news from the letter... [00:12:27]
CLIENT: And the news that we didn't get a $700.00 refund from United Airlines for canceling last year's August trip which we got this morning. And that we canceled our other trip because of the snow this past week but the same thing happened. We got the refund on both cases but we have to use the money ","P1-N400431":"with the airlines. We have $700.00 to use with United, $350.00 to use with Jet Blue, and... [00:13:05]
THERAPIST: Right. But none of it can pay your rent.
CLIENT: And two sessions a week with you and it's all entangled with logistics, and planning, and money which just feels so overwhelming and not even at getting at anything that's deeply overwhelming. So just to complete here your sense of annoying things like that.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It sucks because (pause) I'm not sure this is right. To me it seems like you (pause) move in pretty quickly to reframe it so it's okay, or so you can make the best of it, or so you can contain it that you actually preempt how shitty it feels and how overwhelmed you are because those ","P1-N400491":"things can be kind of intolerable. [00:15:04]
CLIENT: Uh huh. I don't think I can tell how it feels because it still feels shitty.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Maybe I don't fully feel how shitty it is, but I feel it partially enough.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And be kind of stuck with it, I think, partly because you've not (inaudible at 00:15:47) feels if that makes sense. Like... (Pause) It's kind of hard to allow yourself the moment where you just feel overwhelmed and it feels awful, and you don't know what you're going to do or how you're ","P1-N400511":"going deal with it. [00:16:23]
CLIENT: And I think it's going to be a lot more in the moment.
THERAPIST: I think so too.
CLIENT: I don't know why I would do that. (Pause) Why would I allow it?
THERAPIST: Why would you allow yourself to feel that way?
CLIENT: (Pause) Other than...
THERAPIST: Because that's how you feel.
CLIENT: Because it would help it go away. That seems like the only good reason. Or if I have plenty of time I think I'd feel kind of squeezed a little bit. [00:17:21]
THERAPIST: My hunch is when you were saying the other day the fact that I (inaudible at 00:17:31) that did create the space for it.
CLIENT: I think sitting always does. (Pause) But I have to go to lab, and I have to mentor, and I have to do jazz, and I go to a Thursday night jam session, and I'm getting fat and I need to go to boxing. And boxing is really good for a lot of aspects of my health. And I want to cook dinner, and knit, ","P1-N400631":"and read, and go to sleep by 10:30. (Pause) I don't know how I could do those things while feeling so bad. [00:18:55]
THERAPIST: Uh huh. Those are wonderful things. (Pause) I don't know if it also really matters that you are really upset and having a really hard time. [00:19:28]
CLIENT: I don't think I'm ignoring it. I think I'm (pause) aware of how much resistance there is to it. And I'm aware that it's there; that I feel that way sometimes. Maybe all the time.
THERAPIST: You think you may feel like this all the time?
CLIENT: Well I don't know what is distraction from it and what is like a true feeling something else. (Pause) I don't think I deal with this all the time, but I don't know how much I feel it. [00:20:29]
THERAPIST: That makes sense. I don't think you do either. I think you may feel like you're not supposed to feel this bad like you're supposed to be somehow able to do things in such a way that this doesn't happen. It's not supposed to be like this.
CLIENT: (Pause) Yeah. But suffering exists. I think I know that in part of my brain but it doesn't really penetrate. (Pause) I do think I'm a little caught up with (pause) suffering exits and there is an end to suffering and maybe I can catch a little piece of that today for five minutes. Sometimes ","P1-N4006F1":"there's a lot of forced awareness, or forced (inaudible at 00:22:02), or meditation, or forced (pause) anything. [00:22:12]
THERAPIST: I think it feels like there's really something the matter with just feeling bad.
CLIENT: I don't know that I...
THERAPIST: I don't think that forcing it helps all that much but all the more evidence there's some reason you're forcing it then.
CLIENT: Uh huh. (Pause) I guess I'm afraid of what will happen. (Pause) Like I might cause the world to end or something, (pause) or I might really hurt people or scare them, (pause), or more practically I won't be able to do the things that I do. [00:23:36]
THERAPIST: I would put it slightly differently. I don't know. To me I couldn't say it before but it would be like... (inaudible at 00:25:23) allowing yourself to feel so bad as in being in touch with how bad you actually feel. I mean we're talking about making up new feelings. I'm talking about what's ","P1-N4007B1":"actually going on in make sense of which you're kind of in touch with that or (inaudible at 00:25:39) from it.
CLIENT: I don't know what it would feel like to be more in touch with it. (Pause) Monday night I (pause) felt a little bit in touch with it. I don't know what I felt, but I (pause) described to Jeremy how I was feeling and didn't really want anything but just to say the words. And we were lying in bed, ","P1-N4007D1":"and he (pause) held me, and I felt really bad and okay. [00:26:54]
THERAPIST: (Pause) I imagine you're feeling quite distant from me.
CLIENT: I felt really bad to read the words depression and anxiety in the letter. It made me feel distant from you. [00:35:31]
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Maybe I'll e-mail me once between sessions. (Pause) Is that bad?
THERAPIST: Why would it be bad?
CLIENT: Well if all your patients e-mailed you once between sessions you wouldn't have time to see them in person. Also is it bad because I'm not because I'm aware of being together in the same physical space is important. [00:38:11]
THERAPIST: I think for you now it could help to kind of bring in some things that tend to get let off a little bit when you are here from when you're not.
CLIENT: I think so too. Also...
THERAPIST: I think it would be more facilitative if you're talking about them than avoiding them.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it would help to... I think fear is such a big component of feeling bad for me. And I think fear drives me to do a lot of things that aren't necessarily going to lead to being in touch with the feelings. I think being in touch with you a little bit more but... I wouldn't make the ","P1-N400A11":"fear go away at all but it would I don't know. We'll see what happens. [00:39:44]
THERAPIST: We still have a few minutes. (Pause) Would you prefer that to trying to find some more time between now and tomorrow or would you prefer to find some time?
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:40:07).
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Or not. I have to make the day. It's great if I don't then it's assigned too. [00:40:20]
THERAPIST: Uh huh. I think that in the emotional level you are in crisis I don't think you're in the sort of crisis that requires hospitalization for your safety or difficulty functioning. [00:41:15]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But...
CLIENT: Yeah you're right.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:41:23) I think you sometimes use the evidence from the former to explain to yourself why you're not.
CLIENT: Uh huh. (Pause) Yeah. I guess that the spectrum can be as (pause) fine the gradations can be as fine as they are. It doesn't have to be (pause) if you're sick you stay home from school. If you're not sick you go to school. Like you can be sick at school. [00:42:19]
THERAPIST: Yeah. (inaudible at 00:42:24). I think what we're trying to look at now relates to the things that weren't as clear to hear about at various points in the fog. (Pause)
CLIENT: So I guess I'll see you tomorrow. But next week we should talk about it. Bye.
THERAPIST: Bye. [00:43:27]