TITLE: Client "S", Session August 02, 2013: Client discusses her upcoming move, her brother, and her financial issues.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses her upcoming move, her brother, and her financial issues.
THERAPIST: Okay, so scheduling. So next week I'm away—
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: —[unclear] Friday. And then I think we were not scheduled for earlier in the week.
CLIENT: Uh uh.
THERAPIST: Okay. I'll need to double check and confirm, but I think that worked for you. I know I have something mid-day Wednesday, 11:55 again. Does that work for you?
CLIENT: On Wednesday?
THERAPIST: I'm sorry, on Tuesday.
CLIENT: On Tuesday the 6th, 11:55?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, that will work.
THERAPIST: Okay. If there's a problem I'll let you know today before I leave, but if you don't hear from me assume it is good. I'm pretty sure that it is fine.
CLIENT: Okay. And then— So I'm going to be away Friday the 16th.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So I won't be able to meet at our regular time then.
THERAPIST: Okay. All right. Let's see, the 16th. So that's two weeks from today.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Could we look at scheduling for that week next week?
CLIENT: Of course, yeah.
THERAPIST: Is that all right? Okay.
CLIENT: I just wanted while we were on the subject.
THERAPIST: No, no, thank you for letting me know. I do like knowing in advance, I'm just a little discombobulated [unclear].
CLIENT: Yeah, no problem. So I talked—so first I talked to my uncle yesterday, and he said that he's available Wednesday the 14th and Friday the 16th and is willing to help. So then called my brother, or texted him, was basically like, "You need to rearrange your schedule to plan to be in Chicago ","P1-N400351":"the 14th of August through the 19th of August," or through the 18th, whatever that Sunday is. And I like tell him, "I'm not asking you." Like, "This is the only time that it will get down." You know, and he starts, oh, this and that and the other. It's like it doesn't matter. Like literally this will ","P1-N400352":"not get done before September, then you'll put another $500 of all of our inheritance into this storage space of crap we want to get rid of anyway. And he's like, "Well, Uncle Paul went in and just took what he wanted." Yeah, he did do that. But he also took a bunch of shit that he doesn't want that ","P1-N400353":"he got packed up, all the china, all the crystal. Or no, he didn't touch the kitchen actually, but all of the crystal, all of the silverware. You know, like yeah, there's a lot more stuff there and he probably didn't take as much as he could have, but then his thing is, well, who's been taking everybody ","P1-N400354":"to the doctor for the past ten years every week? Which he actually is right about. You know, I mean, it's like you guys can't feud over who— And I'm like, "You're both resentful for different reasons." [3:15]
THERAPIST: No, I don't think so.
CLIENT: "I'm sick of not being in control of my money." I was like, "Are you fucking kidding me?" And I said this to him. I said, "Michael, I'd kill for somebody to be in control of my cash flow." For somebody to be like, "Okay, your bills are all paid, here's your cash for the month, figure it out." ","P1-N400411":"That'd be amazing. Because then— And he doesn't see that. It's just, "I'm sick of—" It's like, "No, you're getting a big boost in life with this if you can manage yourself otherwise." But for him it's just like a roadblock or whatever. And so I wrote him this e-mail and basically told him ","P1-N400412":"that I'm going to start looking for roommates, and if he can get himself a job and figure out what he wants to do in the next week then maybe I'll change my mind. But otherwise he needs to start looking for rooms for, you know, what he can afford and get himself going without us holding his hand. Because ","P1-N400413":"I just foresee that it's just gonna be he's moving out of my mom's house and into mine, and it's gonna be the same thing. He's gonna get fired, he's gonna— And then especially if my father is gonna help him. Like maybe I want the answer to be no, he won't help him, because then it's like a no ","P1-N400414":"brainer. Because even if he's helping him, then Michael gets comfortable with that. I mean, what am I gonna be cooking everything? I'm just— [sighs] [10:15]
THERAPIST: Did you parents co-sign the lease?
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: So you and your brother are the only two on it?
CLIENT: Why? You're wondering how I even got it? Or…
THERAPIST: Yeah, I guess it doesn't make sense to me that anybody ever would have thought he could have afforded it. Like—
CLIENT: Well, because with our combining—because they don't know my debt to income ratio, you know.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So they see my pay stub and it's like, "Ah, his income's not so good but yours is." [13:00]
THERAPIST: And how are your parents thinking this is going to work?
CLIENT: I don't know. I asked her. I said, "You're the one that's in control of his finances, can he afford this?" And they say, "Well, it'll be tight and he'll have to spend less money." Like weed and going out and takeout. But yeah, he can, it's just like he has to wake up and be a grownup. But I'm ","P1-N400571":"not sure that he really can even.
THERAPIST: Um… [pause] Uh… you know, I don't really… there's things I don't know about what exactly was said or what the thinking was. But… [pause] Uh… [pause] I guess it just seems to me sort of unfair to you in this very characteristic way that happens in your family ","P1-N400591":"with things between you and your brother, and that you've been getting really angry about, where in this case your mother again has this idea about how, well, if he's just different he can do it. You know, as though this time for the first time in ten years he's actually gonna really make it work. And ","P1-N400592":"anyway, if he doesn't, who's fucked? You're fucked. Because somebody's gotta come up with the rent.
CLIENT: Mm hm. [14:50]
THERAPIST: So, I mean, [unclear] like she's sort of banning like part of your paycheck on his getting his shit together.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: And I don't know if she and your dad were originally—I had the impression that they were kind of sort of underwriting this for him. In other words, that they had said, "Well, it's not on you, it's on us."
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And now your mom has totally backed out of that, and your dad is equivocating.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Whether it was sort of fuzzier from the beginning. But, I mean, it seems to me like when your mom says that it's not just a statement about her support of him, it's also a statement about fucking you over.
CLIENT: Mm hm, yeah. And I'm not—I don't really understand it.
THERAPIST: I could be wrong, but I don't think either you or she are acknowledging. I mean, when she's saying now—
CLIENT: Well, I don't think she is. I certainly was.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I took it as a—I don't know, it's your problem now. [16:00]
THERAPIST: Right, then I guess [unclear]. [My question is…?] [pause] that she's then really backing out on agreement that she made with you.
CLIENT: Well, she never agreed to like pay anything for him, you know, [unclear]. Everybody just kind of like told me that they think it it'll work out, and I guess I mean everybody just assumed that stuff will get paid like it always has for him. But… [pause] I don't know.
THERAPIST: So it was kind of also sort of fuzzy and unclear how that was going to happen [unclear 17:07].
CLIENT: Well, I mean, I said to him a couple weeks ago, a few ago, we had the same discussion about like you've got to show me that you can be a responsible adult, Michael. Like I have to not—you know, you have to be doing this stuff now, like if you really want to live on your own and live with ","P1-N4007B1":"me in this apartment. And he said, "I know, and I'm sorry and I will." And I believed him, and now here I am like giving him another ultimatum, which I'm not even really sure I care to follow through with. And meanwhile babysitting schedule tonight and I was really fucking counting on that money. It ","P1-N4007B2":"kind of is annoying. I mean, I didn't get any packing done last night, so hopefully I'll get some done tonight. But it was just another like, "Really?" [18:00]
THERAPIST: I guess it sounds—it does remind me a little bit of some of the stuff with Franklin.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: Some of the stuff with Michael starts reminding me a bit of some of the stuff with Franklin, saying it's gonna be different.
CLIENT: Yup. And that's kind of why I'm like seeing it and like wanting to put a stop to it before it starts at this point. And I mean I feel a little worse about it because it's like my brother and I don't want it to be fucked, whereas I don't care if Franklin's fucked.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: I mean, I did at a certain point, but you know.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But at the same time I also recognize that I'm kind of putting a lot on myself in terms of having faith in somebody who's really limited in terms of their abilities to follow through on things for themself, or for their life or those who love them. And so that's kind of why I am like, okay, ","P1-N4008B1":"so August 2nd,, we're moving on September 1st, the end of the month, there's got to be people out there that are last minute needing a room, or their roommate situations fell through. Of course I like kind of somewhat haphazardly responded to like a bunch of like female looking for a thing. And the ","P1-N4008B2":"only person of course that writes back to me already is because I didn't read this whole description, and she's an adult entertainer. So if that's not a problem, and she has no pay stubs and only cash, and she—yeah. And I'm like, what the fuck? Like, okay, never mind. But I mean like I did respond ","P1-N4008B3":"to some good ones, but watch those, the ones that don't remind me, and then I put an ad on Craigslist. But now it's gonna be like this desperate search. And my father will cover the rent for me. Like he'll cover the other half of the rent if I can't find a roommate by actually October 1st, you know, ","P1-N4008B4":"because September's already paid. But I mean I know he will because he is now like supporting my back now, and everybody thinks it's a good idea. [20:10]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I'd rather just find somebody now rather than have to deal with a late rent check or I don't know what. Or electricity bill not being—I don't know, whatever. I mean, that would never happen with me ever, like nothing doesn't get paid. But it's stressful. And it's a really busy month ","P1-N400911":"already for me, and now I'm also now dealing with this. I mean, [unclear 21:07]. I just I don't get it. [very long pause, three minutes] I think I'm—nothing. I just wish I could live on my— I wish there wasn't always something. Like why is there always something I'm fucking tackling? And ","P1-N400912":"I'm not saying like I want it to just be easy and never have issues, but like—it can't just be that I'm moving in a month. It's that I'm moving in a month and now I'm finding a new roommate in a month. [pause] Or it can't just be that I'm only am really getting to go to Chicago once this summer, ","P1-N400913":"but I'm going to be moving the whole time and really will only get to see Nora and the kids for like the day of the birthday party on Saturday and that's it. And I can't get back out there until mid-September. You know, like… [pause] I just can't believe Michael's such an asshole and is letting ","P1-N400914":"me down like this, you know. He's really very selfish. [pause] [26:00]
THERAPIST: I think in a way that you're like sort of kind of asking me for support. I mean at least I could sort of figure out for you and sort of take the burden of now having to figure out whether or when or how you screwed up the whole situation with Michael and the apartment.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Which is, you know, item number 763 on the list of things you're having to figure out and deal with and feeling stressed about. And… [pause] Yeah, I mean, I think in a way you [unclear] somehow some like commonality as to how Sergio was. Like being supportive, being nice. Being sorry ","P1-N400991":"for what you're having to deal with. Because otherwise I think in a way I would be, you know, just kind of washing my hands of it and leaving you alone with it and maybe making some comment about something to do with it, but not [unclear 31:13] that makes you feel less burdened.
CLIENT: I don't think anything's going to make me feel less burdened except for less burdened at this point, like at this moment at least, you know. [pause] Like I get sad about a lot, and like I feel angry about a lot, and I feel a lot of emotions about a lot. Like there's not too much that makes me ","P1-N4009B1":"have the feeling of just like wanting to go to sleep, and just makes me want to just go to sleep, like I want to just go to sleep. I just want to go home and like crawl into bed and just like put on the air conditioner and that's it, and just like not think about it. [long pause] [33:00]
THERAPIST: Well, I think it may be a little bit of a comment to make you. Like I get [unclear 33:38] more support. Like I don't think you're being critical of me, but I think you're being a frustrated like, uh, I don't feel like you're going to be supportive in a way, or like, okay, I'm going home, ","P1-N4009D1":"I'm closing the door, I'm putting the air conditioner, I'm going to bed. [34:00]
CLIENT: No. Yeah. No, I don't think it's like in response to that. I think it's more just—I don't know. I just really don't know what to think about it. Like what can anybody say really? Like no, I don't want somebody to be like, "Oh well, I told you it was a stupid idea." Like because I already ","P1-N4009F1":"am thinking that to myself, and like you know.
THERAPIST: Well, of course there are things you will consider. I mean, they're just the sort of things that Sergio said, you know. What a shitty piece of luck this was. The fact that Michael actually had a job I think when this all started.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And had had it I think for a while.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: And seemed to like it. You know, I mean, it was actually quite a different situation. But I thought your parents did seem more enthusiastic and supportive of the whole thing then than now.
CLIENT: Yeah. [35:10]
THERAPIST: You know. I mean, I think there are things that someone could say or point out about how—that don't change the current [unclear] a bit. I mean, that's what you're saying, it's like what things is he gonna say that gonna change how things actually are right now? And of course nothing. ","P1-N400AD1":"But what you're dealing with is not just how things are now, you're also dealing with how responsible you feel, how much you're wondering if you fucked up from the beginning and fucked yourself over, how much you feel like this happens to you every five minutes, and so you must have done something to ","P1-N400AD2":"arrange it, or like you deserve it for X, Y or Z reason. I mean, there's a lot people could say in response for sort of that supportive and helpful for feeling so crummy, and those sorts of things I think.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And [unclear 36:17]. And not just about sort of the situation per se, although it's very difficult, but also about the fact that you're responsible for worrying about [unclear 36:40], or feeling like you can't handle it because you have so much other stuff you also have to handle. You know, ","P1-N400B11":"like other stuff.
CLIENT: Mm hm. [pause] And you know it's like August, okay, and then the summer's over. But like at this point I'm really just like, okay, with everything going on I really just want August to go extremely fast so that I can be moved into this apartment with whoever I'm going to be living with and settled, ","P1-N400B31":"and just settle in and do my thing in the couple days it takes me to get myself completely moved into a place. And like maybe then I'll start feeling like less in limbo, and just feeling like finally a little bit more, you know—I mean, who knows, maybe I'm setting myself up, because then if I ","P1-N400B32":"don't then I'm going to be like, "Oh god, I'm still feeling shitty." But I at least feel like if I can—or even not even like hoping that [unclear 38:03] or just like find a good roommate. Like because of [unclear] seeing the apartment possibly until she comes in.
THERAPIST: Yeah. That was the end of her search.
CLIENT: That was it. There was no search.
THERAPIST: Yeah. [43:00]
CLIENT: And yeah, my mom did say a few weeks ago that maybe I should find another roommate. But then she also was like, "Well, maybe if you just talk to him and see if he can show you in the next couple weeks what he can do." And then now she's like, "Well, I told you a couple weeks ago not to [unclear ","P1-N400BF1":"43:12]." She's reporting to me that he's still smoking in the house and everything, so. [pause] I mean, we'll see, maybe we'll have some bites tonight, you know, and I can maybe meet some people on Sunday or something. We'll see. I feel like it's like a lot of people are looking for a roommate, so people ","P1-N400BF2":"can pick and choose. Like the people that could be [unclear] can pick and choose with their responses, you know. I'm hoping that some of them do get back to me though. [44:00]
THERAPIST: Why don't we stop now.
CLIENT: Okay. So I'll see you on Tuesday 11:55.