TITLE: Client "S", Session July 19, 2013: Client criticizes a wedding she attended with her mother, continues to worry about her financial position and apply for jobs.
DESCRIPTION: Client criticizes a wedding she attended with her mother, continues to worry about her financial position and apply for jobs.
THERAPIST: Is everything okay?
CLIENT: Yeah. I just I didn't go to work today, I called out sick. Like playing a little hooky I guess. But also thought I had a good excuse, because I actually injured my knee. So apparently I've got what's called runner's knee.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: And it's like I did too much too fast exercising after not exercising ever, and not like stretching properly. And then I did this drive with my mom.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then I drove all the way back, like straight shot. Because we came back early because the weather was shitty, we were tired of like being in the mountains. I wanted to come home because I just would rather be home than in shitty weather somewhere else where I'm just with her. Like I'd rather ","P1-N400151":"hang out with my friends or get stuff done. And I'm worried about all this stuff, like I have a million returns to make. And she's wanting to stay, because she was like, "It's my only vacation time, and I hate my house, and Michael," and blah blah blah, so she doesn't want to be home. But then I won ","P1-N400152":"and we went home early. And so I'm sure that, you know, doing this drive with my leg in this one position. And her car was not comfortable to drive in. And for some reason—well, not for some reason, because it has like a tiny little nothing engine probably—but the front of the car is much ","P1-N400153":"shorter than mine. So where I'm used to being able to have my leg a little bit more extended, it was really more like this for like 17 hours. But I didn't realize it was angry [sic]. I thought— Anyway, and I went to the doctor and he did some exercises and was like, "Okay, this is it," and gave ","P1-N400154":"me one of those tubing things and gave me exercises to do and PT stuff, and ice it, and blah blah blah. But so it's been kind of like an intermittent pain the last few days. And I'm tense because I was really getting into the working out, like I was really—I mean, there's still other stuff that ","P1-N400155":"I can do, and some of the exercises are somewhat, you know, callisthenic in nature.
THERAPIST: Right. [2:10]
CLIENT: But anyway, so I just simply said, "Oh, I woke up and my knee was hurting worse than normal, I think the day off it will be good. Which is true. Like not having to go to work, and not having to sit in the desk all day and whatever.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I was running late, so I'm sorry, because I [couldn't manage with them? 2:28], because I was—anyway, whatever. So the trip was— So the wedding wasn't bad, like as I thought. I knew some of the girls because I've known them when they were kids—you know, when I would go to ","P1-N4001D1":"hang out with them and blah blah blah. And so that was cool, and I ended up hanging out with people. And one of them, her husband didn't come, and so we ended up hanging out the whole night. And her step siblings, she has three of them, are really, really cool, and I knew them already. So it was fine ","P1-N4001D2":"and I was hanging out. I got drunk, and my mom was like, "I've never seen you drunk." And I was like, "Oh, great." But she was fine with it. She was like, "Oh, you were just repeating yourself a lot." Because like she went up early and I like hung out a little bit more. [3:20]
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I like kind of was like really joking, like not thinking that—
THERAPIST: [Thought you might not offend? 7:20].
CLIENT: No, no, I was not. Like people—men in—couples wearing matching. Like one girl had this blue and white striped dress on, and her boyfriend had on kakis with a blue and white same blue color gingham. And then Daphne and her fiancé, Daphne's wearing like a seersucker dress and ","P1-N4002D1":"he was wearing a polo with pink like kakis. And it didn't stop. Like yellow shorts, blue—I mean—
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So this was really the [cut? 7:51], and I was laughing, my mom and I were laughing, because we had joked about this. And I was like, "Oh, not my style." [8:00]
THERAPIST: Right. They're inviting people in for [inaudible].
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. Like, "Wha!" I mean, so whatever. Overall the wedding was okay. Sleeping with my mom because of her snoring was horrible until Daphne's mother, who knows the problem because she's like best friends with my mom and my mom was like all nervous for Trina.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It was like, "Oh my god, I don't know why I didn't think of it. I got a prescription for Ambien recently because I've been worried about all this wedding stuff that I couldn't sleep at night." She's like, "Well, let's see if it works." And I was like, "Yeah." So I took an Ambien and it worked ","P1-N400391":"like a charm. I mean, where like—like ear plugs don't work, I wake up constantly during the night and can't fall back asleep because of the noise and all this stuff, right. And my mom and I are like, "Oh my god, this is perfect. If we ever want to travel let's go to the doctor and say ‘I'm ","P1-N400392":"going for X amount of nights,' like explain what the issue is, and get some Ambien." I don't fear being addicted to it because I don't have trouble falling asleep ever, so I wouldn't be tempted to—I mean, if I'm going to do any drugs for sleeping it's weed, and I already do that so it's like whatever. ","P1-N400393":"Anyway. [9:00]
THERAPIST: I… [pause] There's a lot in what you've said.
CLIENT: I know, I'm sorry, I'm like going fast because there was a lot to cover.
THERAPIST: It's okay. In some ways I'm inclined to say you seem—perhaps at least in here, but I think not. What I want to hear is about you're addicted to like criticism and being critical. And then I guess partly I put it that way because, you know, there's a sense often with other addiction ","P1-N400451":"of obviously people like in many things they can distance themselves or not have to deal with or sort of put a show around like between themselves and their lives.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And it feels like that [overtalk].
CLIENT: That I'm using criticism, like criticizing other people? Or perceiving?
THERAPIST: No, no, criticizing other people.
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: And other things.
CLIENT: Like it makes me feel—wait, what do you mean? Like it—
THERAPIST: Well, even the wedding. At least the way you talk about it in here as your being critical of the various aspects of it. I'm not saying you're wrong in what you're saying about that, but it sort of precludes getting into other things about what it was like. You know? I mean, I imagine there ","P1-N400551":"were—you were worried about being sad. You're worried about being alone it sounds like. You didn't quite—you didn't start off actually this way, you started off sort of a little more openly about it, you know, like, "Hm, it was better than I thought, there were people to hang around with, ","P1-N400552":"it's good, that part was good."
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: "Yeah, yeah, I got [drunk fast? 13:38], but like my mother was okay with it, it didn't become a problem." You know, then you went sort of—you moved pretty quickly into like trashing the wedding, for the food and like the water and blah blah blah. And it doesn't feel like it—I ","P1-N400591":"don't know whether this is the way you're talking about it in here with me, or the way it was at the time, or both. [14:00]
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: But at least as far as talking about it with me which I can see first hand, that just sort of precludes other things you might have felt or you actually may have had to being there. I mean, it was a lovely setting, there was something that seemed romantic about it, even though in this kind ","P1-N4005D1":"of like cloying, vomitous way, people were really couply. Which I imagine like, you know, in some ways kind of cute, in some ways is clearly nauseating. But the nauseating part, that gets in the way of the like and it was also sad.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Or, you know, actually it was kind of like nice in a way because people can be happier. I don't know what it was. But I don't know because it was just nauseating. And I'm not saying it wasn't nauseating, but there seem like trends where things become nauseating in particular, I think in part ","P1-N400611":"so they're now something else.
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Or so that whatever other [act?] you're having for them get kind of—
CLIENT: No, yeah.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: No, I think there's a lot of truth to that.
THERAPIST: And… [pause] Yeah, I mean the sort of immediate first-hand thing I see about it is the way that it precludes getting more into some of what it was like if you [unclear 15:26] with me.
CLIENT: Mm hm. Do you want to know really what it was like, like in terms of that other stuff?
THERAPIST: Um…
CLIENT: Or are you not sure that I like know?
THERAPIST: No, my interest is really in like what makes it uncomfortable—what makes that a more comfortable way of going about it than talking about other aspects of it. And I… yeah, I thought I'd forgot. But anyway that's my interest. I'm not saying I'm not interested to know—
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: —but it's not that I have like a particular [unclear 16:13] about this, so much as that—
CLIENT: Right. Well, I think it feels a lot—
THERAPIST: Here's what I'm going to say, sorry.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: It also makes me wonder, although I don't know, whether if it feels like—I mean, [unclear 16:27] therapy session. You know, like I [unclear] have a fucking thing to say, and you [unclear] all this stuff, and like, you know, what the hell,
CLIENT: Right, right, right. No, no, no, this is helpful.
THERAPIST: And so again where like, you know, it sort of could be the criticism against criticism thing.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: [inarticulate 16:46] what am I going to say, like it just sounds like it sucks for you. And then, you know, [unclear] this, in part because we're able to think about whatever else.
CLIENT: Well, I mean, I think that the whole focusing more on—it feels a lot less self-critical to talk about, you know, that's like, "Idiot." They couldn't pick up any with all this money they've got, you know. And like, "Ugh, the food! Oh, I would have done this so much differently. Oh, they ","P1-N4008B1":"should have done—" feels more productive I guess then like saying like that it was like, "Eh, there were so many couples," and it just is like [unclear 17:28] already, like enough with the couples. And like the only single guys, like her step brother, who's a very nice funny guy, but like bald ","P1-N4008B2":"and like overweight and not attractive and like not interested, and that's the only single guy. And so it somehow feels a lot less self-critical to talk about the other things that sucked about it. It was like, "Oh my god, look at their vows." Like, "I would do it so much differently."
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like, "I would be so much more sincere," you know, whatever. That feels better than like, "Eh." It just reminded me that I'm still single and I'm still looking and this is not something that I'm really that close to right now, like a wedding and people talking about us as a couple, and like ","P1-N4008F1":"toasts and whatever. That feels more like self-deprecating. Because then—
THERAPIST: You just get kind of mired in that and—
CLIENT: Yeah, because I think that then I think get into the kind of thought process of, you know, woe is me, I'm always gonna be alone, like what if I never find anything, like what the hell, how come I always choose the wrong people, how do these people choose. And so I can then spiral if I think ","P1-N400931":"about that stuff. Which then—well, I mean, which then ended up happening kind of like in the last couple days. Because I didn't see Stephanie like at all before I left hardly.
THERAPIST: That's kind of [unclear 18:48].
CLIENT: Exactly. Right.
THERAPIST: And you're [unclear].
CLIENT: Right. Because I've been feeling so much better. I've been exercising, and like that's free. [19:00]
THERAPIST: [unclear], I mean that's—
CLIENT: But then I like, my knee is injured, I'm not supposed to do squats, I was doing this 30-day squat challenge that I was super into. Like I can't do Zumba right now, like all this stuff.
THERAPIST: I noticed you're not doing—
CLIENT: You know, and then he was like—he's like, "Talk to me." And he's like, "And how old are you?" Oh yeah, and then like, "You shouldn't be doing this, you shouldn't be doing this." And I was like, "Oh, okay." So you're basically saying I can't exercise.
THERAPIST: [unclear], yeah.
CLIENT: Yeah, like I can't exercise like I'm 15? Like, oh. You know. And then Stephanie has been really quite busy with Aiden and doing stuff with him, and asking my recommendation if she should go to this hotel or that hotel for the weekend they're planning next weekend, and hasn't really told me about ","P1-N400A71":"her birthday party yet that I missed that I was really sad to miss and didn't go to. And told me we had plans tonight, then says, "Oh no, wait, I have this plan to go with Aiden to meet his family, and I don't know what time I'll be back Friday night." And, "Oh, Saturday—" I had said to her earlier ","P1-N400A72":"in the week, "Oh, Saturday beach?" And she was like, "Oh, I don't know why I told you yes, I'm doing errands all day, like I don't know." And then Saturday night, like Phil's birthday party with Aiden. So that, plus the injury and not being able to work out anymore, and I was just like, "Really?" And ","P1-N400A73":"then my brother being in a—
THERAPIST: Right. [20:20]
CLIENT: So then it like kind of happened anyway.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And on top of that—sorry, I just want to say—
THERAPIST: Go ahead.
CLIENT: —my mother's weight is really upsetting, and—
THERAPIST: She's [unclear].
CLIENT: Yeah. And I just don't understand. She didn't really even follow my lead in terms of eating kind of more similarly to how I was eating in terms of solid portions and less and all of that. She still is eating considerably more than me for no reason other than she's on vacation. And I'm like, ","P1-N400B71":""So am I, but so? You can still enjoy stuff and not go overboard." And it's really upsetting, and she doesn't seem to care, and she's all depressed about her house, and blah blah blah, and her life. And she's all upset about my father and me, like the way he's treating me. So anyway, that was another ","P1-N400B72":"thing that added [unclear 21:14], then I was already [unclear] with her from spending five days with her, and her weight, and she doesn't seem to care, and she doesn't seem to want to really make an effort to [unclear]. I mean, she's the biggest person her age at that weight, or at all. You know?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So what the hell. If that wasn't inspiring. And there were a lot of people in her age range. [pause] You know, and I'm feeling nervous about finances with Michael and—
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I haven't heard anything about this money I'm supposed to maybe get from my grandmother, and my dad hasn't even called me about my offer to go to Chicago with him. He hasn't told me—I mean—but at the same time he's going to help—and then tells Michael to ask me to help ","P1-N400BF1":"him find a van. "Oh, ask Trina, she's really good at this, she helped me when I was buying my car." [23:00]
THERAPIST: [pause] I imagine you feel in a way here like kind of identified with your mother with her weight, not because of your weight but—I mean the sort of—I have a sense as you're talking that—I'm not saying you'd want to do this, but the feeling is as though you have so much ","P1-N400C11":"stuff you could say you could sit here for six hours.
CLIENT: Like what?
THERAPIST: Sit here for six hours.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And talk and talk and talk about all the things that you're frustrated about and happened and they're upsetting. You're either sort of critical and angry about it or sad about it to yourself, what you're stuck in, or worrying about—I guess that's the part between your mother, like you ","P1-N400C91":"feeling as though it's like all jammed into you, like well, wait, wait, wait, [unclear 24:15].
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and [unclear].
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Yeah. And you went away like you only got close to her like times where squeeze all that in.
CLIENT: Mm hm. And then there's all this like different stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Right.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I get an e-mail I would say like about the day I get back saying—from one of my mother's and my aunt is saying, "Hi Trina, hope your summer's going well." Or, "We're going to host a manager event in the next week or so, so keep your eyes peeled."
THERAPIST: Major position? [25:00]
CLIENT: A Manager position for the [unclear] at University of Houston. It's like, okay I think—like I see her from the [unclear], like blah blah blah, I'm thinking, "Yeah, whatever." So they posted it just today, I checked today, and the pay grade is like the middle—it's like [49, 57, 89] ","P1-N400DB1":"is like the pay grade scale.
THERAPIST: Low, medium, high.
CLIENT: Low, medium, high. Right, it's low. And so I was like, "Ah, there's no harm in applying." So I applied without even reading the job description. And my information is like all in the system already because I've applied to a thousand million positions there. And I e-mailed [unclear 25:45] applied ","P1-N400DF1":"[unclear]. Because I figured [unclear]. And like what if they came at me with like $65,000, $60,000? I know that's a stretch, but if the mid-range is 65 and I have X amount of years of experience? I mean, that would be a nice little pay bump in terms of like lifestyle, even if I had to move. Anyway, ","P1-N400DF2":"so now that's in the mix. I mean, what if I could bargain, what if I could negotiate? I should move if I'm going to get a big pay grade, like a big pay bump, because of my debt, like primarily. So it's an interesting development. I'm not sure it's gonna go anywhere, I'm not convinced of anything, because ","P1-N400DF3":"I've been applying since January and I haven't spoken about the thousands of positions that I haven't been able to, but this is the first one that has reasonable [unclear 26:45] that they've actually expressed interest [unclear] in me. So that'll be interesting to find out what happens. I also wanted ","P1-N400DF4":"to—I got your bill.
THERAPIST: Right. [27:00]
CLIENT: So I obviously can't like pay it in one chunk right now.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I don't know what would be best for you in terms of like—
THERAPIST: It depends on what you can do.
CLIENT: Probably like a hundred of it if you want to do that today.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Is that okay?
THERAPIST: Um… yeah, a hundred of it today, and then we can just talk about the timing of—
CLIENT: Exactly. Let me work it out a little bit—
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: —and then I'll shoot you an e-mail back—
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: —with more specific [unclear]. Do you need my card?
THERAPIST: I think you gave it to me while I was—
CLIENT: Yeah, I think you should have it.
THERAPIST: Is it the same one?
CLIENT: Mm hm.
THERAPIST: Okay. Okay, I will do that, and I will [unclear 27:49].
CLIENT: Thanks. Would it be easier if I like write a check each session?
THERAPIST: You can do that, that's fine. It's really not that hard for me to charge it, I just whatever. [28:00]
CLIENT: I know. I know all about billing. I mean, there was hours of billing. I haven't been billing in X weeks, and all obnoxious.
THERAPIST: Well, I do not want to put you in the middle of that again.
CLIENT: [laughs]
THERAPIST: We'll find whatever's most expedient.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: But let's do that. And then next week where are we at schedule-wise?
CLIENT: Well, I think let's just keep Friday for now.
THERAPIST: Okay. Is your concern about money, or is you concern about time, or are you not wanting to do more than once a week? What's your—
CLIENT: I don't know, all of the above.
THERAPIST: Okay. Well, let's talk about that, we should.
CLIENT: Okay. Yeah, for sure.
THERAPIST: Do more than commenting on that.
CLIENT: Okay, yes. All right, good. So I will e-mail you.
THERAPIST: Okay. I will charge you for a hundred bucks today.
CLIENT: Great. [29:00]
THERAPIST: And we'll meet next Friday, and yeah, [unclear].
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Thank you. Have a great weekend.
THERAPIST: You too.