TITLE: Client "S", Session January 24, 2014: Client discusses having an extremely stressful week at work and at home. Client is stressed and angry over interviews she is conducting at work, and is sad about the state of her love life. Client is annoyed at her roommate, who is very lazy and does nothing to help around the apartment.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses having an extremely stressful week at work and at home. Client is stressed and angry over interviews she is conducting at work, and is sad about the state of her love life. Client is annoyed at her roommate, who is very lazy and does nothing to help around the apartment.
THERAPIST: Supergirl.
CLIENT: I’m not wiley today. I was really my brain was asleep or something on Monday. After that drive and I spoke to my mom, she said it’s good that you went but I think that that trip always just makes you, gets to you more than you expect.
THERAPIST: Did you want to check?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Go ahead.
CLIENT: It’s probably in my [inaudible at 00:03:42]. Okay, that’s the right position. Okay, whatever. And so they kind of want to give her a chance. She’s, her English she’s still kind of learning English, and the finance team is routing for her because they think she’s ","P1-N4001E1":"been doing such a great job. I don’t think she’s been doing such a great job. I, from the jump, was I would be really nervous about hiring somebody who’s English is so poor just in terms of the amount of writing that goes into this position and how I’m really trying to move away ","P1-N4001E2":"from having somebody I need to micromanage and feeling like I would have to micromanage her even more than Melody (ph). I mean maybe some of the things she would be better at in terms of making sure supplies are ordered, making sure I think that I would have other issues such as typos and not being ","P1-N4001E3":"tech savvy enough and whatever. [00:04:35]
THERAPIST: I see, yes.
CLIENT: So, anyway, the first girl we interviewed they’re going to do a second interview for and then if they like her we can just hire her because I told them, I said I would just hire her. The other candidates are over qualified but still would be good candidates. And so if they still want to ","P1-N400281":"see more after they do the second interview with her, they’ll call one of the other folks but if not we can just hire her and make her an offer, which I’m happy about. She would be a great fit; I think that she’s somebody that would want to apply for my position when I leave and would ","P1-N400282":"be good at it. [00:07:09]
THERAPIST: Why [inaudible at 00:10:51] start?
CLIENT: Yes. Or why am I going to be always if I’m dating somebody and things are going well am I always going to be looking for just in case there’s a better person because I made this mistake before with Franklin (ph), or am I going to be always wondering what’s going to come ","P1-N400361":"up that’s going make us break up then I’m going to be my own downfall? I’m just, I’m feeling really unsure about how I don’t know how to date. I don’t know what I’m supposed to be concentrating on and I think it’s because I’ve never have done this ","P1-N400362":"kind of contrived dating. It’s always just been like I’ve met somebody and got to know them more organically or knew them through friends. And this is so starting from nothing. I don’t know anything about these people even from their, I mean from their Match.com profile [00:11:42]
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:11:43] you get so sure you’re going to be disappointed and it’s going to blow up and you’re going to be really upset about it? You feel like, I guess to see another aspect of it that you are sure you are going to feel you should have known better.
CLIENT: Right, or I should have asked more questions in the very, very beginning about stuff. Like question hairstyle or something like -
THERAPIST: Something else that crossed my mind is the best date you’ve described so far is the first person you interviewed this week.
CLIENT: Right. Exactly.
THERAPIST: And I think it’s because she’s kind of on top of her shit and conveys I think conveys something about I don’t know being self-reliant or being able to look out for herself or sort of do what she needed for herself even if you guys weren’t giving her enough to do or ","P1-N400401":"she’s getting bored or whatever. [00:12:55]
CLIENT: Right. I mean I don’t know we had some stuff in common I guess, me and this guy, and we had made conversation. But what if I don’t know. Now I can’t, yesterday I had all these big things on my mind like what if this, what if that, what if I find out this, what if we realize ","P1-N400421":"this? But now I can’t think of them anymore. I don’t know. [00:13:38]
THERAPIST: Well I think I know what you’re saying is entirely true about your roommate and of course it’s reasonable that you’d want somebody who kind of had her shit together more to be living with, especially given how you’re feeling it would make a big difference. But I think ","P1-N400521":"you’re also commenting on something with me. Where I know at one level obviously you know how this works. But on another level I think you feel like I’m sitting here like a lump and I see all these things out of place in your life and all this stuff you’ve got to take care of. [00:21:31]
CLIENT: No, I know I have it in me. I mean I spent a lot of time since the last year coming home and smoking as much pot as I could as soon as possible and laying on my bed or couch for hours. I mean when I was in Waltham still I would, I mean I was in my room for most of the day. [00:24:06]
THERAPIST: Oh, I mean I don’t think you ever mentioned that to me.
CLIENT: Well because I hated, I really -
THERAPIST: I’m not upset.
CLIENT: No, I know, I know, I know. But -
THERAPIST: It sounds like me to come downing [inaudible at 00:24:15]. Do you think it’s clearly something that you are really upset about having done and feel really ashamed about it?
CLIENT: Yes, I feel ashamed, yes. And I even felt ashamed the other day when I got home and Helen (ph) said hey want to watch an episode of Revenge? And it was almost like she had been lonely all day waiting for me to come home and watch TV with her. And then I felt peer-pressure and this peer-pressure ","P1-N400661":"thing is something that I kind of mentioned I think before [inaudible at 00:24:47] [phone ringing] sorry. Sorry. But I felt peer pressure to do so. And so where I was going to do a little workout, I ended up laying on the couch for two hours. [00:25:05]
THERAPIST: Right. It sounds like you feel as though you’re sort of almost like staying 10 yards ahead of this sort of lump monster and running hard.
CLIENT: Right. And depression and I think Celexa really hasn’t been what’s helped me and so yes, you’re right; I am. And so to have a job that I want to not do because I’m just resentful about everything and then a roommate that’s is unpolite and Stephanie (ph) is trying ","P1-N4006C1":"to convince me to tolerate her. [00:26:15]
THERAPIST: And also a new report who you, it seems like it plays with the energies as well in a way that the candidate you like is saying I’m not a lump, I would do this, I would do that, even if there’s nothing to do she will find something to do that was effective. Whereas the other one, ","P1-N4006E1":"you anticipate will need a lot of your help, won’t really be good at stuff, is sort of getting isn’t achieving in the interview and getting interview questions right. Yes, I see. So they’re all kind of organized. And I do think that starts to emerge in here when you feel like I don’t ","P1-N4006E2":"have much to say or [00:27:00]
CLIENT: You aren’t saying oh why don’t you do this?
THERAPIST: Right. Right, yes. You need to get out and okay let me see your workout routines and I want to see -
CLIENT: Right -
THERAPIST: How many of those dishes did you put away and how many are left in yes, something like that. Sort of like the lump monster is in the room.
CLIENT: Right, and right. And Stephanie (ph) feels that I should be applying outside of MIT in terms of the job scene, which is hard for me because the benefits it’s hard to get into MIT so why leave? I mean if I can get back in but why and then not to mention the extension school stuff, which ","P1-N400781":"I signed up for a class. Did I tell you that? That I signed up for another class already? I don’t think so.
THERAPIST: No, I was smiling and distracted because I’m saying okay where’s my scorecard while I’m keeping track of all the things you’re doing.
CLIENT: Right, right, right.
THERAPIST: Yes, yes, but no I don’t think you told me.
CLIENT: Well I’m really actually excited about it.
THERAPIST: Well that’s good.
CLIENT: It’s because I haven’t for a while since I struggled (ph). And I’m still really not sure what I’m doing with that degree but I figured I’ll take a class and see how I get back into it. And I found this class and it’s a psychology class. It’s an online ","P1-N400841":"class, which is great for me because with work and everything it’s really nice to not have to worry about going to an actual class. [00:28:23]
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:31:05] stuff going on there where I mean it’s really quite funny that you wind up feeling like the asshole with Franklin (ph) and with your roommate. And the reason you broke up with Franklin (ph) was I guess largely -
CLIENT: He was an asshole.
THERAPIST: Yes. That he was doing things that were clearly out of the bounds of what you both really would think was okay. And there was some other stuff about how he talks to you and things like that. But -
CLIENT: Yes, it was largely him and not me so, but then I felt like the asshole.
THERAPIST: So that’s the part that strikes me. And again with your roommate, I mean I don’t remember well how she represented herself but if you’re saying a lot of it is that she sort of said up front she was not like this and then is like this or has become like this I wonder how ","P1-N400961":"you then become the asshole there, you know what I mean? [00:32:06]
CLIENT: Because instead of just talking to her like an adult and saying Helen (ph) can you change your entire way of living and personality, I’m instead saying I don’t want to live with you. And it’s like oh what did I do? I tried to take out the trash and give you the remote, you ","P1-N400981":"know? That’s what I would feel like she would be thinking because she had been trying with that to be honest but I mean it still doesn’t change the fact that I don’t like living with somebody that is like her.
THERAPIST: There seems like there’s something going on where you feel incredibly guilty holding people responsible. And I think it’s probably true as much as you can rail about him like with your brother for example, maybe with your mom but certainly with Franklin (ph) and with your roommate.
CLIENT: Yes, my that’s -
THERAPIST: In other words you have this vision of this sort of panicked version of them saying hey I’m trying, I’m doing my best, this is all I can do and you’re being an asshole and giving me a hard time. I guess it seems to me to reflect your feeling a lot of guilt about having expectations ","P1-N400A01":"for them of I don’t have anything at all, I don’t have anything at all but she got the trash; big deal. [00:34:22]
CLIENT: Right, offer me her big fucking deal and again those items are just kind of what I was able to tell her that would just kind of make things a little bit more tolerable, a little bit more tolerable.
THERAPIST: Yes because I keep in my mind going back to my impression. I mean I don’t know if I really knew the details that, about how she would be as a roommate but my impression is you had this sense or she said she wasn’t going to be like this, like the, she’d be more active and ","P1-N400A41":"doing stuff. I don’t know, but -
CLIENT: Or maybe she didn’t but I just didn’t anticipate that somebody could lay on the couch for four hours straight every single day of their life or more. I didn’t anticipate that I think is what it was. [00:35:12]
THERAPIST: It’s strange (ph) because you’ve seen that.
CLIENT: Right. I guess, yes. Also to be fair to myself, I wasn’t aware that she had Fibromyalgia and bipolar disorder when I agreed to move in with her. And those have big [inaudible at 00:35:36] impact on her behavior I think which is okay for her but it’s something I have to want to ","P1-N400AA1":"live with her and those diseases. [Pause]
THERAPIST: Right, but there’s a sort of split where you say that and are clearly frustrated about it but feel really guilty apparently -
CLIENT: Because I feel like it’s something that I can’t tell somebody. You can tell somebody to take out the trash and ask them to please be more considerate with the remote control in the living room. You can’t tell somebody hey can you be perceptive, can you be a perceptive human.
THERAPIST: Sure you can. You can say there’s all this stuff that has to be done around the apartment that somehow I notice that you never do. I mean that’s like the same [00:37:07]
CLIENT: Okay, that’s helpful. See, I don’t think though. I think that that’s such a big deal to have how can I tell somebody -
THERAPIST: I guess it’s striking because I mean -
CLIENT: Because I feel like she’s also, and then I also feel like the bad guy -
THERAPIST: Right. I think that’s why you don’t think it because basically that is what you’re saying to me. You might have said something like there’s al these things she doesn’t notice around the apartment and I’m saying well you can tell her there’s all these ","P1-N400BA1":"things she doesn’t notice around the apartment. I don’t -
CLIENT: But then I’m a jerk because in my mind I see her saying things like oh but I just don’t notice them so what am I supposed to do. Why are you being such a jerk? I didn’t notice. One day the milk was on the counter the whole day because I left it out. Fine, but if you’re ","P1-N400BC1":"home all day milk obviously goes in the fridge. But yes, I think that you’re right, I could say to her -
THERAPIST: See this is the split that I have in mind where on one hand you say that and you’re exasperated. But on the other hand you say well if I told her then she would say well like I said I was distracted and you left it out anyway.
CLIENT: Right, exactly. [00:38:13]
THERAPIST: So, which is you feel these very different ways about it that have no contact with each other. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You feel sort of sheepish and guilty and you’re an asshole on one side and furious and righteous on the other.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes, so I’m, I don’t know. [Pause]
THERAPIST: And -
CLIENT: Right, righteous because I almost feel like why should I have to tell you that there’s no need for 10 empty ice trays in the freezer? Why is that something that needs to be taught? But at the same time I don’t want to say that to her. [00:39:21]
THERAPIST: Right and when you think about saying it to her, you almost feel like you have no right to.
CLIENT: Exactly. Well if I’m not filling up the ice trays or taking out the empty ones but then I feel that if I did that I would just be cleaning up after her mess and she will never learn. But it’s not my job to teach her any other way so yes you’re right, there’s a huge split.
THERAPIST: I think so, yes. [Pause] It reminds me a bit of playing [pretty women] (ph) with your mom and brother and your roommate interestingly. The split between sort of really holding somebody responsible and, that’s not quite the way I want to put it, but anyway I mean sort of appreciating ","P1-N400D21":"their diagnosis, you know what I mean? Like, the sort of split that can come from dealing with somebody with an addiction or something that really affects their functioning where on one hand you treat them like just another person responsible as anybody would be and on the other hand you kind of have ","P1-N400D22":"to give them more room because they have this diagnosis. And those things are kind of separate. [00:40:57]
CLIENT: Right, but I have a hard time separating them.
THERAPIST: You have a hard time putting them together.
CLIENT: Oh really?
THERAPIST: Yes. You separate them. That’s what you do when you separate them. In other words -
CLIENT: Oh like they’re sick but they’re still a regular person.
THERAPIST: Yes, right. You respond as if they’re a regular person and get pissed off and feel every right to be and then you sort of image them as being sick and feel like well she’s sick, she really just can’t do it and I’m just being an asshole; I’m kicking her when she’s ","P1-N400DE1":"down and out (ph). [00:41:30]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: [Pause] And, [pause] yes, and there’s kind of [00:42:10]
CLIENT: Okay, so I’ll see you on Monday?
THERAPIST: Right and not Friday and the following Monday?
CLIENT: And not Friday and the following Monday. All right, thanks much. [inaudible at 00:43:45].
THERAPIST: No problem. Thanks, you too. Take care, Trina. [00:43:52]