TITLE: Client "S", Session June 17, 2013: Client discusses helping her mother out one day and the annoyance she feels towards her brother and mother about their current living situation. Client discusses her plans to start anew, whether that means moving far away or just to a new apartment.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses helping her mother out one day and the annoyance she feels towards her brother and mother about their current living situation. Client discusses her plans to start anew, whether that means moving far away or just to a new apartment.
CLIENT: Okay, I have a lot to say and only a little time to say it. Which is not any different than usual. But, okay. First I want to comment on this Sergio thing that happened on Friday. So finally at like 5:45 he's like so does 8 work for you? And I was like 'eh I made other plan, like I don't want ","P1-N4000B1":"to see each other anymore.' Then he called me selfish and said that he had been excited for this, that he had a really rough week and wanted to talk to me and just wanted it to be a surprise. Blah, blah, blah. We like went back and forth like an hour on text until finally he was like, we should talk ","P1-N4000B2":"about this in person. Like, why are we going back and forth? It was all stupid bullshit and he was being manipulative, like I could easily see that and I've learned manipulative from Franklin. So anyway.
THERAPIST: He's a home inspector?
CLIENT: He buys, like he's in real estate that's his business. He owns a bunch of buildings and rents them out and then he just bought a house recently and he's selling it. He sold it and blah, blah, blah. So I am like, let me not be like selfish, because maybe I was. So I text him like, 'hey, how'd ","P1-N400111":"your home inspection go?' And he's like, 'it went really well. Everything was good and I was like, 'great. I'm glad to hear it.' And he's like, 'thanks, Trina.' Doesn't ask me how I am, doesn't ask me how my day was. So I'm like, 'actually yeah, like stop trying to convince me that you're' so I'm ","P1-N400112":"planning on not texting him today. I'd rather call me selfish than literally I do the most unselfish thing, asking how his shit went that you were nervous about. And you don't say one word about, hope you have a great day like, what are you up to? How's your whatever. So that's so I'm going to ","P1-N400113":"say, 'please don't try to convince me that I want to see you, because I really don't.' And I like consider being like, 'eh, the sex isn't really that good, so you can stop like saying like, 'oh, we have such good chemistry.'
THERAPIST: What is it? You mentioned a few times what is not so great about the sex? CLIENT: Honestly? Like I think he's too small. And so I just don't I'm not that into it and I think that after Franklin who was bigger, it especially wasn't that great, then when I was only sleeping with Sergio ","P1-N400151":"for a little while it was oh, maybe it's not that bad, but it's like, man, you know, I'm just not that into it. I guess it's not that there for me, totally. So I just sex is really important to me in a relationship and like Stephanie can deal with mediocre sex, I could not. Like I can't. So that's what it is.
THERAPIST: So, mostly it is his size?
CLIENT: Yeah. And like I don't like the way he kisses. It's like too much tongue or like it's too much, like blah, like get away from me. That's how it is. Like, okay stop. Like too much. And maybe if I liked him a little better the mediocre sex wouldn't be as big of a deal because I would like him better.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And so I'd be more into it because I'm into him.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: But because I'm not, it's like not good.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So anyway. Okay, Saturday then I go Saturday night, right, moving on and I'd really like to move on from that whole scenario because I have a lot that's gone on in the last few days. We go to the (unclear) house on Saturday night to watch the hockey game. I'm still not smoking. Everybody ","P1-N400251":"there is smoking. So I proceed to like sit there with a straw in my little vodka drink and then was like hammered. I mean not like falling over like blackout drunk hammered, but like hammered enough to be like we need to order like two pizzas to eat like five slices before I go to bed. And I had my ","P1-N400252":"car there so they let me crash on their couch and Lucas's sister was there and Stephanie slept in Aiden's bed obviously. Lucas's sister got in Lucas's bed. I got the couch and Lucas slept on the floor in the living room and it was so frigging uncomfortable for me.
THERAPIST: Oh wait. Drug test?
CLIENT: For the Franklin Investments job. That's why I stopped smoking. What, I didn't tell you this?
THERAPIST: Oh, right, the Franklin Investments job. I didn't know there was a drug test.
CLIENT: Yeah, they might have a drug test, I decided to stop smoking. So I've not smoked so I haven't smoked in (cross talk).
THERAPIST: You mentioned that Franklin Investments the (unclear) but I didn't know you (cross talk).
CLIENT: Ah.
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: Right, right. Okay, fine. But anyway, so I smoked. Then like after dinner we decided to take a drive and get lost and we started having a conversation because now I'm all high and I haven't been high in a while and getting all introspective and stuff. And I was like we had a long conversation. ","P1-N400411":"He understands me very well. He comes from a similar background in terms of divorce and his mother had a drinking and alcohol problem and so he kind of gets me on a level that some other people don't and we've had a lot of conversations about it. And have kind of craziness in different ways but like ","P1-N400412":"similar anxieties and whatever and darkness. So I started okay, I don't like want to explain the whole conversation because it was just a lot of talking. But I basically told him that in the last couple of days and I didn't know if was because it was summer or because I had my new car or what, but ","P1-N400413":"I started thinking that maybe it's not that bad, maybe I don't want to leave. Maybe I have this new all-wheel drive car. Maybe, maybe, maybe. And I kind of pushed that out of my own head, but then when we were talking he was like, you have this like plan laid out like I want to help. I want a husband. ","P1-N400414":"I want kids. I want blah, you know. But you don't really know where you're going. You don't know where you're going to be. And then he says to me, and then I was like, yeah, I know because this and that. And he says to me, okay, so fine, let's say you do have this plan. Where do you see this plan happening? ","P1-N400415":"And I was like, Providence. And he was like, 'so what the fuck? Why are you?' And then he said, honestly, do you want to know my truth and I'm not saying this to like be an asshole. Like, your parents are old, your grandmother's really old, your whole family is here. Don't be selfish. And he didn't ","P1-N400416":"mean it in like a 'don't be selfish and do what's best for you' kind of thing. But like what are the implications of my moving away? And like I know that my parents would never say that to me, but there are implications in my moving away. You know, this whole thing with yesterday with my mom and Michael ","P1-N400417":"like I kind of hold the family together in terms of being the sane one. I know that's like relative, but and then I, and you know, to be honest -
THERAPIST: (inaudible).
CLIENT: Right. And then there's Nora and the girls and my goddaughter and like and what if I'm like, what if I go down there and I meet somebody and they want me to stay. I don't want to stay and then it becomes a thing. What if I do want to stay and then I miss my and then it's all fucked up because ","P1-N400451":"I don't really want to be somewhere else when I have kids. What if I don't meet anybody? Then I get back here where I want to be with somebody and say, fuck there's goes another three years. And then I kept saying no. I didn't miss the time in my life when I should do this. But I kind of did. Like impersonally.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I kind of am starting to feel this, no this is not three years ago when I could have gone there and had an experience and then come back and been like -
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And so all this happened with Lucas and like I'm high in the car and like high in the conversation and it was actually really helpful because it was not like he was convincing me or like making it was like I was able to say what I'd been like keeping and anyway, and then he says to me ","P1-N4004D1":"and then I was like, 'well maybe it's just like my job that I just want a higher role, and it's like the place where I live. Like I don't want to live there anymore.' And he said, 'that's one thing that since your break up I have not understood. I don't understand why you're still in that apartment. ","P1-N4004D2":"And I explained it' so cheap and this and that and my roommate, da, da, da, da, da. And he's like, okay, I've got all of that but why haven't you moved? Like this is a big issue for you.
CLIENT: But even with all this and worried about rents in Providence and this and that I feel like it's more doable. Meanwhile, my father is buying the condo above him. He lives in a two-family house and they have the first floor condo and there's a second floor condo. She's selling they're buying. Rental.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: But then it crossed my mind as soon as I had this thought maybe we can work something out.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I mean, but like would I really want to live above my dad? I don't know because what if it's like uncomfortable bringing home (unclear).
THERAPIST: Where is it?
CLIENT: In You know the corner where the Mobil is?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It's that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I know where it is.
CLIENT: Real nice. Real convenient. (Unclear). Anyway, they could probably charge $2500 a month for that place and I could probably pay $1300 to $1500 with their help. (Laughs) And that's the other thing. I don't know what's going to happen. I think that my father will support me moving. I don't know ","P1-N400691":"if he would support me rent, like my rent. But I really hate having a roommate. I hate every roommate. I want to move back to Dupont. I don't know. I think it's just that I want to move. I think I hate my apartment. But then I thought about it and like I'm going to miss everybody too much. And like ","P1-N400692":"my parents are old and not because they're going to die but because I want to spend time with them and I want to be able to help my mom so that this stuff doesn't pile up. And I want to be there to go to my brother's stuff that he has going on and I want to be able to go see my grandma quickly if I ","P1-N400693":"need to because she's sick in the hospital and might die immediately. I want to be able to go to every birthday party of my goddaughter and her older sister and like this all stuff that I would really miss and would be really lonely. And this is a weird feeling because it's completely opposite of what ","P1-N400694":"I've been thinking I needed. But I feel much better about this need of being here but in a different place and starting my life because that's the other thing. It's my city. Like why should I move just because Franklin like fucked me up? (Crying) Like I don't want to just move because of that and ","P1-N400695":"like it's not years ago when I was 25 and had a little bit more flexibility at time to do stuff I wanted to. I work for a really good school. I have a really good job where they really respect me. Like (crying) I don't want to move just because of a stupid, fucking break up. Like why should like really ","P1-N400696":"put me in a place where I might be more unhappy. Like okay, I've never lived anywhere else, like big whup this is where I'm from. Like a lot of people have never lived anywhere else, like and I think that's fine. I don't know why I'm putting so much pressure on myself that it isn't fine, that I need ","P1-N400697":"to live somewhere else.
CLIENT: I'm like, I don't mind living in Waltham, but really the reason is because I, we wanted a cheaper apartment and you know, whatever, but really I liked living in Dupont a lot better and a lot more of my life is over on that side anyway. You know, Stephanie's over there, Mom's over there, Dad's over there.
CLIENT: I mean, yes, it's convenient for work, living in Waltham. I mean, yeah. But like okay, I can live in Arlington maybe then. Or just live in Dupont and who cares if I have to take two trains, big whup, you know?
CLIENT: And these are the kinds of things where I'm like, 'am I bipolar?' Like is that bipolar to change your mind like that on something?
THERAPIST: I don't think you're bipolar.
CLIENT: (inaudible).
THERAPIST: I do think -
THERAPIST: I do think you do sort of make a case -
CLIENT: For staying.
THERAPIST: For staying, yeah, where you had been making a case -
CLIENT: For leaving.
THERAPIST: For leaving, and -
CLIENT: I feel like my case for staying is much stronger, though.
THERAPIST: But you also worry that you're bipolar because you felt so strongly about one and then the other. I think that's a little disturbing to you. And so I think you're kind of struggling in terms of making a case for one or the other and want to sort of show me that you know what you're doing.
CLIENT: Well everybody. But I don't. I'm in such limbo, not at the time of this conversation with Lucas last night. He was basically like, you don't know what you're doing.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Like you don't have to prove to anybody that you do know what you're doing either.
THERAPIST: I think you feel -
CLIENT: I feel I do.
THERAPIST: You do.
CLIENT: Oh, absolutely.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and I think it's related to having to feel independent.
CLIENT: I think it's certainly having, feeling like this relationship with Franklin was such a huge mistake that I really want to be like not making the right choice like I know I making or something like, there's something around there, too, I feel like.
THERAPIST: Well, yeah, I think you felt really dependent on him and you feel really ashamed of it. I think the situation you describe with your mother over the weekend probably captures it pretty well. You said something like, 'it seemed pitiful.' That she was really a mess. She really couldn't take ","P1-N400A11":"care of herself and her stuff was it sounded like a disaster, (unclear). I think that sort of is a picture of what somebody who isn't independent is like for you. And I think, clearly, you feel a lot of compassion for her but I think you feel that would be totally shameful when it's you in any way, ","P1-N400A12":"or when it feels anything like that for you. If that makes sense. And I imagine one aspect, it would be a mistake to move to Houston, but I imagine one aspect of it that is kind of doubling down on showing you don't need Franklin, you know, but -
CLIENT: Exactly.
THERAPIST: You don't need him and you don't need anyone else that you know.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Again, that's not to say moving there is a bad idea. I'm just saying I think that's one -
CLIENT: And I don't think it's a bad idea either. I just kind of am thinking that it's not the best idea for me, now. And I think I would be fine either way. I mean I know I would. I feel confident about that. But I feel like I'll be better if I just stay.
THERAPIST: Well, so there it is again, right? To be fine either way, you'll be fine. Let's make it clear.
CLIENT: (Laughs) Right.
THERAPIST: You'll be standing on your own two feet. You'll be managing for yourself. Either way it'll be okay. You're not going to fall apart.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Make sure everybody knows that. And you're pretty sure you know which way you want to go.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So you're decisive.
CLIENT: (Laughs) Exactly.
THERAPIST: You're not passive and uncertain. Or (unclear). [00:26:23]
CLIENT: (Laughs) No not at all.
THERAPIST: Let's just be clear.
CLIENT: Right. But at the same time I feel much better about the idea of a transition like looking for a new apartment here in Providence, than I do about transitioning to a different state and a different job and a different life. And I feel much better about this new idea now.
CLIENT: And it's a strange sensation after the last eight months of feeling of having gone from having gone from having made the decision. But I mean at the same time yeah, of course this has been one of the most transitional difficult years of my entire life. And so I'm not faulting myself. I think ","P1-N400C71":"I am a little, but I don't want to fault myself and I don't think it's fair and my mom said that also don't fault yourself. And Lucas also had that opinion and you know, for changing my mind, which it feels like I'm doing. Like it's a much more relaxing feeling to think about the idea of now just ","P1-N400C72":"finding a job at MIT that's higher up and that it can be more of a marathon, not a race kind of thing because I'm here and I have a job. I'm in a new apartment. I'm getting a raise either way because I had my (unclear) review. So I'm getting that raise. And I think I can probably say, you know, I'd ","P1-N400C73":"like a little more money because I'd like stay here longer and I think they'll give it to me. They want to keep me there. I mean Glenda had said to Jane, what can we do to keep her here when Jane told her I had an interview.
THERAPIST: Glenda's Jane's boss?
CLIENT: Yeah. Hannah (sp?), also my director, I mean they both said that kind of 'do you think there's anything you can do to convince her to stay?' Yeah yeah, there is. Give me a little more money so I can find a better job at MIT in a year, maybe, or six months or whatever, you know? And still ","P1-N400CB1":"help you guys out if you need when I transition and be around and help train the new person, you know the whole thing. And that idea now also feels good to me and I think that honestly if I do get a ride to work it's changing my ride to work, whatever the case may be and I think that I'll feel better ","P1-N400CB2":"about work. A lot of my issues are like I'm so sick of fucking leaving this apartment and driving or taking the train this way and then coming back here and walking on Waltham with disgusting crack heads and people shitting in alleys, like that's a lot of it. And yeah, I'm bored at my job, but if I ","P1-N400CB3":"have a little more money and an understanding that they know I want to grow and have a new position eventually, I think it will feel a lot better. I had a great review with Melody (sp?) and so I feel like things are going to be better with that relationship and that position. Jez, man, I don't know.
THERAPIST: So in talking to him, are you talking to him a little bit because it started to sound like -?
CLIENT: My dad?
THERAPIST: I wondered that before you mentioned him. I mean (cross talk).
CLIENT: Yeah because I (cross talk) for sure. I know why I don't want to live with anybody and why I should maybe have some help from my dad if that's the case or maybe he should help me invest in a condo or maybe let me live in the investment he just made and take care of it for a while until I'm on ","P1-N400D51":"my feet a little more. I mean, those make sense to me. I don't know if. I don't know how my dad will react especially with a new car and blah, blah, blah. (Pause) But also it means that I'm not in Houston where he's probably going to help me a little financially anyway. And I'm here so I can help him ","P1-N400D52":"more and will be more willing to if he really is helping me like have a happier life. Sure, I'll come and fucking go to that museum with you and (laughs). You know. Or if it will you know, stuff like that. Or come and help you rake the lawn or shovel snow, or (Pause) I honestly, to tell you the truth, ","P1-N400D53":"think he will be a little bit happy and relieved that I want to stay here. I mean also the other issue of his relationship with my uncle and my grandmother being old,
THERAPIST: Okay. That's part of what it is, I think. (Pause) I think it was helpful talking to Lucas, but I think you're now, I think probably (unclear) kind of worried about doing here is like I don't think this is really a conversation.; I think you're really sort of telling me as though you've made ","P1-N400D71":"a decision, I mean, in some respects I can see you haven't, but talking as though you have and like explaining why it' the right one which is a little more like a negotiation or an argument. I don't mean like (unclear) but it has more of that tone than being as though you're actually trying to figure ","P1-N400D72":"out what you want. And maybe that's how things between you and your dad are often times. It does not sound like the other day with Lucas in the car It sounds like you are actually like it was okay that you were confused and upset and sort of having this new idea about what you wanted and were trying ","P1-N400D73":"to (unclear) into that, in a way. But now you seem a little more sort of closed down around what you think you should do and it seems like it's as though you expect and I think you do probably not like intellectually, but sort of emotionally, you expect some push back from me. Like hold on I've ","P1-N400D74":"got a spreadsheet and you know, you mentioned staying here, you mentioned the one bedroom, yes, your raise will be x-percent and if you think about that over (unclear) a year and say you want to live in Dupont or Arlington where rents are like that.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: I mean, obviously, (inaudible).
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But that feels much more like the kind of conversation you're involved in with me. And preliminary to that to do with like sorting out for yourself I mean that is not about in a way figuring out for yourself what you want to do. It sort of is, but the way you go about that is through -
CLIENT: Right. Which is talking about everything, you know? But, honestly, I really think that like that this is my decision. Like I don't think I want to move.
THERAPIST: I see. So you feel like you're pretty decided.
CLIENT: Yep. Like and I feel like I'm doubting myself that I've decided because how could I flip that quick? How could I flip the switch that quick? From like this huge desire to move and all these reasons why. And all the work I've put in to doing that. And all the jobs and everything. It's too fast. ","P1-N400E51":"You have to think about it a little bit more. But I don't think I do. Maybe that's how I felt more about Houston.
THERAPIST: Again, that's what you seem to then be hearing me say is like -
CLIENT: Think about it more?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Which is interesting because in a way that's a sort of variation on being like your dad.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I'm not arguing the dollars and cents of your decision or whether you can make it work or not. I'm arguing about like, you actually haven't thought this out carefully. It hasn't been that long. You've been you've flip-flopped pretty quickly here so really what you need is to think about it more.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: So that's what you're hearing me say.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That's not what I'm saying.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: If you're sure you're sure of the reason it seemed to me otherwise as you said at the beginning, does this mean I'm bipolar?
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Which I know you probably felt was not that plausible, but which did and you felt like you flipped very quickly as though you lack a sort of confidence in this decision at this point.
CLIENT: Or that maybe I'm afraid is why I make wrong decisions.
THERAPIST: Uh huh [yes]. So no, I'm not actually telling you you need to think about this more. That's your call to make.
CLIENT: (inaudible).
THERAPIST: What I'm saying is that you kind of set it up like I'm going to be pushing back or telling you or -
CLIENT: Questioning.
THERAPIST: Yeah. Exactly. That's right.
CLIENT: Yeah. And I did think that.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Well, why's that, Trina? Like what the hell?
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: You're sitting in here like preparing me to litigate the client and you're going to move and all this stuff. And that's what I kind of thought. And then all of a sudden, like so why? What's up with that, you know? I also knew like my mom was right. Like she said I'm awfully glad you're going ","P1-N4011B1":"to see your doctor tomorrow. This is perfect timing. Because I also knew, like I thought maybe you'd question it, but I also knew you would be supportive and understanding why I would change my mind. That makes sense in terms of what we've been talking about for however long I've been seeing you.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean you know, you need what you need to do. I'm interested in like kind of who you're arguing with or how you're setting this up or like if it feels to you like in a way I'm going to be like, 'what the hell, you've been talking about moving and (unclear) and now you're staying. Like, ","P1-N4011F1":"jez, Trina, come on.' That person is a harder person to actually have a sort of conversation with about everything you're thinking and feeling to do with this. You know?
CLIENT: Um hmm [yes].
THERAPIST: Like that's somebody who is pushing back on you.
CLIENT: You know what? It's what Franklin would do.
THERAPIST: Uh huh [yes].
CLIENT: And I think that's a big -
THERAPIST: That's something. There's something there.
CLIENT: Yeah. Being used to someone being critical of me changing my mind.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: However, it has implications on the other person.
THERAPIST: Right.
THERAPIST: No. If you think about something you're going to do that's going to make you happier, I think it's great.
CLIENT: I'm interested in things that at times I think make it harder for you to get to that point, if that makes sense.
CLIENT: Like I'm already like, I want to immediately start calling places and see if I can move like July 1st or August 1st like done. And like fucking figure it out that (inaudible). And to be honest the rents for a one bedroom in places I'd want to live in Houston are the same fucking price -$1500 ","P1-N4013F1":"(unclear). Maybe I don't have a pool here. But I can (inaudible). (Laughs)
CLIENT: My mom's supportive of it. And I'm sure everybody else will be, too. I just have to I just have to it's just a matter of a little bit of logistical stuff, but no different from the logistical stuff if I were to get a job and move to Houston. Like I said, unless this job offers me a really, ","P1-N401431":"really huge amount of money, that would be a game changer and can allow me to (unclear) and the whole nine yards I just can't see it as worth it. It's no longer worth it to go for 5% more than what I get paid now, 10% even.
CLIENT: I actually feel less crazy for like changing my mind about this then like the crazy I felt about the idea of moving to Houston that almost (unclear).
CLIENT: I wonder what the percentage of women no, this is a dumb question, like that are my age that have roommates. Like huge, but I feel like people my age have had roommates that they have had for a long time now. And unless I (unclear).
THERAPIST: We should stop now.
CLIENT: Okay. But I'll see you Friday?
THERAPIST: Okay, right.
CLIENT: Okay. Thank you, have a great weekend.
THERAPIST: Take care.