TITLE: Client "S", Session January 20, 2014: Client discusses her weekend out of town and how she's dreading the upcoming work week. Client is exhausted from driving and cuts the session short.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses her weekend out of town and how she's dreading the upcoming work week. Client is exhausted from driving and cuts the session short.
CLIENT: I think that I have to… I just came back from Chicago, actually. And so I had to drive to Chicago the next day so I figured yeah. So I just got back from Chicago, literally off the road, but yeah, I was kind of glad because I wanted to get back kind of early. But looking forward to going ","P1-N4000C1":"home. I’m just pretty tired. I went from my cousin’s baby shower on Saturday and then hung out with Amanda and the girls yesterday and today, a little bit, and then I left at noon. I was going to see my grandmother but I ended up not having time, but that’s okay; I’ll see her ","P1-N4000C2":"next time. And so it was nice. The baby shower was good. I’m starting interviews tomorrow for [inaudible] position at work. [1:07] So I’m not really looking forward to that. Yeah, I don’t know. I don’t really feel like I have anything to say right now. (pause)
THERAPIST: What pops into your head?
CLIENT: Nothing in particular I don’t think.
THERAPIST: You mean like your mind is blank or you mean nothing that seems important comes to mind?
CLIENT: Yeah, I think I’m just kind of tired and there’s nothing I really want to expend the energy on talking or something. [2:20] I mean nothing is popping, yeah. No, my mind is not blank but (pause)
THERAPIST: I guess if I feel like talking or want to talk I would say [inaudible] say whatever comes to mind, even if it seems irrelevant or trivial or inappropriate or whatever. But if you’re just tired and don’t want to talk, that’s different. [3:25]
CLIENT: No, I don’t think it’s trivial. Well unless you consider just thinking about what I’m going to do when I get home trivial. Well I guess that could be considered trivial. I don’t really think it’s considered trivial.
THERAPIST: Well it’s your judgment that… in other words, I guess part of what I’m saying or another way to put it is I’m not sure if you’re saying I don’t… nothing’s coming to mind that I feel is worth talking about or seems like the right thing to talk ","P1-N4001A1":"about, in which case I’m saying I’d just say whatever comes to mind, whatever’s on your mind, or whether you’re saying if I were feeling less tired I would be just talking about whatever’s coming to mind.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: But I’m feeling tired so I just don’t feel like talking.
CLIENT: Yes, that one.
THERAPIST: That one.
CLIENT: Well, it’s like I got off this drive. I’ve had this nagging headache for over 24 hours now and yesterday it went to migraine level in the evening. And then I laid down and took four ibuprofen and felt better, and then ate something and felt better. [4:38] But… and then I had ","P1-N400241":"coffee and ate today and felt bad, and then, just in the last hour and a half, it started to kind of… I feel it coming from the back of my head to the front. And I wonder what it’s from, why it was so persistent yesterday that I... I was making it go away by taking Advil or eating or drinking ","P1-N400242":"water, whatever, so then it kept coming back. And I wonder why it’s going on. And I hope it doesn’t continue into tomorrow. That’s also what I’m thinking about.
THERAPIST: I kind of imagine something else that’s not exactly putting you in the mood to talk about death, [ph?] having a headache.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: Feeling crummy.
CLIENT: Right. And I think also when I drive I’ve just been thinking about stuff. Driving… making that drive alone all the time is really kind of exhausting. I do get some good thinking done but it’s also, I don’t know, it’s not my favorite thing to do. [6:10] (pause) I’m ","P1-N4002C1":"really not into these interviews tomorrow. I kind of wish I didn’t have to do them, somebody else [inaudible] but I have to do them. (pause) Is it weird to go into therapy and not have anything to say, or not want to talk? Not… I keep saying I have nothing to say, but it’s not that. ","P1-N4002C2":"I’m just tired. Or maybe I feel like I’ve been talking to myself for the last four hours so I’m already exhausted about thinking of things, whatever things [inaudible] my mind over, mulling them over. [8:48] (pause)I feel like I don’t sleep that well at Amanda’s either. ","P1-N4002C3":"I mean there’s a bed for me but it’s really hard and I feel like it’s cold and maybe I just come back tired because I don’t sleep that well or something, or maybe that’s the headache problem because I slept two nights in a row. (pause) I think I’m seeing Dr. Gillingham ","P1-N4002C4":"[ph?] this week to get a refill. I think I should just keep doing the ten milligrams. [10:41] It seems to be good. It doesn’t feel like there’s too many side effects. (pause)
THERAPIST: I think when people that are… people coming to therapy are quiet, sort of, that happens for different reasons. I don’t have a sense for you today that it’s any other than feeling kind of wiped out.
CLIENT: I’m thinking more about my bed that I am about I’m going to be single forever, something like that. Or what I’m going to eat for dinner. [11:55]
THERAPIST: Would you rather go? I mean stay, chill out, it’s fine with me. I just… I can’t tell if that’s…
CLIENT: I mean yeah, I could go. Is that a weird thing?
THERAPIST: No, you should do what you want. It’s… this is for you. You should do what you want.
CLIENT: I hear you. I’m thinking, also, I was a little bit thinking maybe I should’ve cancelled this appointment, and then I was like no, I don’t think [inaudible] but then I think I just wasn’t expecting to be so tired when I got off the road. There wasn’t a lot of traffic ","P1-N400381":"today, which I was expecting, maybe, because it was a holiday weekend. But I think a lot of people had to work today or something. [12:57] Yeah, I don’t know. I could talk about tomorrow and having to interview, and I just feel like I’ve done it so many times at this point I’m not ","P1-N400382":"even going to have questions in front of me. I’m just going to roll with it and ask whatever comes to mind. And of course I’m joking around with myself, like I’m going to ask if they know how to use Google and are willing to do so without instructions to. I’m interviewing two ","P1-N400383":"people that are overqualified but one is a cousin of a current employee, another is a friend of Clark’s [ph?] And they’re both older and more… over qualified but want this job for some reason. And I’m interviewing one friend of Melody’s [ph?] but maybe she’s good. ","P1-N400384":"I don’t know. And then I’m interviewing the girl that already works there that sucks and I would never hire. I would literally throw her resume away as soon as I saw it if it were the real world. But I have to interview her. And it’s going to be very awkward because I really don’t ","P1-N400385":"want to hire her and I think she’s s going to… we’ll see how she does in the interview but I’m not convinced that she’s going to blow me out of the water and be like oh my God, where’s this great candidate been hiding. [14:39] I just feel like I want to get them over ","P1-N400386":"with because then I don’t have to worry about the second interviews, and I don’t have to really worry about it until I get back. So maybe this is why I don’t want to talk about anything because I don’t feel like thinking about all this stuff right now. I have to think about it ","P1-N400387":"tomorrow morning on my commute into work and so I was like eh. That’s what the weekends are for, to not have something [inaudible] Although I suppose it is Monday, though it’s a holiday so it doesn’t count. (pause) Oh, I have to cancel two appointments with you. Maybe we should do ","P1-N400388":"that now. [inaudible]
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: It’s the 31st.
THERAPIST: Okay, that Friday.
CLIENT: That’s my birthday. I’m going to be in Miami so… and then also Monday the 3rd. (pause) Yeah, I mean I guess I could go, if I’m not going to have anything to say and I prefer to go home. Is that okay?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [16:58]
CLIENT: Or is that offensive? Okay. Cool. Are you sure?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I want you to do what you want to do, actually.
CLIENT: I want to go home.
THERAPIST: All right.
CLIENT: Okay, cool. So I’ll see you Friday?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: All right, great.