TITLE: Client "S", Session March 24, 2014: Client discusses frustration and anger with roommate, and sadness over a past breakup.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses frustration and anger with roommate, and sadness over a past breakup.
CLIENT: I had a fairly unpleasant weekend.
THERAPIST: I’m sorry to hear that.
CLIENT: Friday night I babysat, and it was fine. She’s so cute. It doesn’t matter. She just makes me laugh.
THERAPIST: I’m sorry. A scheduling thing. So you’re out Friday.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I’m likely to get a cancellation at 12:45 on Wednesday. Do you want it?
CLIENT: No. Let’s just start again on Monday. This weekend is ridiculous and stupid with the conference.
THERAPIST: The conference. Okay.
CLIENT: Thank you.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: But I think I’ll be too stressed to get away in the middle of the day. Anyway, and then I get a text from my roommate that says, can I have some of your wine. And I was like, sure, I have a bottle of white in the fridge or a bottle of red in the cabinet if you want. You’re welcome ","P1-N4001F1":"to open either of them and have some. Like really, I don’t care. They’re free from work. I get them all the time. Okay, fine. And she writes back, okay. I was like, I’ll be home. You know, I’m at babysitting so I’ll be home at whatever. [1:18] She was okay, I might have ","P1-N4001F2":"a guy over. I’m okay, fine. So then I get home and she drank the entire bottle of wine and was like, ah, and dropping pizza on the floor. And I was like, cool. This is exactly what I wanted to come home to. Whatever. I was just oh, that’s fine.
THERAPIST: Wait. What?
CLIENT: It’s probably because he has a secret life. I don’t know. I’m not even Facebook friends with him. But that’s my theory. [9:41] Why aren’t we just dating? I don’t understand what’s the big secret. Who cares? But anyway, then it started to make me feel ","P1-N400351":"sad and upset that I don’t have any kind of relationship and somebody that I actually have feelings for and care about and am worried that that they’re dead, because they’re not answering their phone. I can’t really even care about. I can’t really even act upon. I know ","P1-N400352":"his brother and his sister. And I very easily could have-
THERAPIST: Did you guys go to high school? How did you know him?
CLIENT: No. I meet him through. So he was a rebound guy that I didn’t tell you about for a while.
THERAPIST: I remember that.
CLIENT: And I know his sister and brother, because they’re all friends with this girl, Sadie and her husband Emery, who I met through Franklin (ph) but then who stayed friends with me after Franklin and I broke up. [10:28]
THERAPIST: Is that how you met him?
CLIENT: And that’s how I met Sergio. Through these – with all these people or whatever. So I’m Facebook friends with both. We were Facebook friends, but then after a fight one time he unfriended me and said we’re done with Facebook. Whatever. I don’t trust you anyway. So ","P1-N400411":"who cares? So normally, I probably would have just been like, hey, Maddox, what’s up? Because he would like, who cares. But then I felt like I couldn’t or that it would just be out of nowhere or that it would be like, Sergio, you’re seeing Trina? What’s going on? And then he’s ","P1-N400412":"be like, why’d you-? You know. If he wasn’t dead. Which apparently he wasn’t. So then I get dressed and I leave the house, and I’m starting to kind of spiral a little bit even though I started to try to start the day positive. I’m in the week before my period is supposed ","P1-N400413":"to come, so I’m kind of on edge about that, just because I don’tbecause of last month.
THERAPIST: You never got it.
CLIENT: Right. [11:24] And I’m walking out of my house and he’s pulling up in front of my house. And he’s like, I came becauseHe’s like, Trina. And I’m like, what the hell happened to you? I thought you were dead. That was literally my response. He’s like, my phone ","P1-N400451":"is broken. I don’t have a phone. So I was coming to write you a note and leave it for you, because I figured you already went to work. I was like, well I guess you’re lucky you caught me then. He’s like, yeah, I know. And I was like, I even wrote you a Facebook message and we’re ","P1-N400452":"not even friends on Facebook. He’s like, I’m never on Facebook. I don’t check it.
THERAPIST: That’s pretty thin.
CLIENT: It’s ridiculous. He could have shown up on Sunday at any time. I as home all day. He could have written me a note. By the way, I know we had tentative plans for tonight. Why at 8:30 in the morning? Was it because he was on his way to work? Was it because it was just, oops, I forgot about ","P1-N4004B1":"Trina? Was it that he was at some other woman’s house that was close by and thought oh, I may as well stop? He’s like, well, that’s why I was coming to write you a note. I was like, I thought you were dead. Good luck with your phone. Have a nice day. Why schlep all the way to my fucking ","P1-N4004B2":"house? He doesn’t live that close to me. He lives in Waltham, close to my old house. I mean, whatever.
THERAPIST: I imagine maybe you also didn’t call me because it felt like more of a risk than you wanted to take. I mean, your roommate is totally letting you down. Sergio is totally letting you down. The fucking printer fucking totally let you down. And you’re feeling really -
CLIENT: No actually, exactly what I said to Stephanie was no, he’s not going to call me back, because he’s got patients all day and I’m seeing him at 4:30 anyway, so I’ll probably just see him and wait to talk to him at 4:30. And then, she was like, no, Trina. If you’re ","P1-N4005B1":"feeling like you need to commit yourself, then he’ll call you back. If that’s really how you’re feeling, then you need to talk to him and you need to call. But yeah, that’s exactly what it was. But I didn’t want it.
THERAPIST: And I think the thing that’s in there is that if you called me and I didn’t get back to you, you’d have been really hurt.
CLIENT: Exactly. [19:49] And then Devon (sp) came in and saw that I was all upset or Betty (sp) had gone in and told her whatever. It’s her first day back after being away last week. And she’s like, do you want to go home? Like, what’s going on? Of course I wanted to go home, but I ","P1-N4005F1":"also couldn’t because I had so much work and I was meeting somebody for one of the conferences. I don’t want this to be happening anymore. And it’s still happening. I don’t know what to do about it. And sure, it is valid to talk to – I’m actually meeting with (inaudible ","P1-N4005F2":"at 20:33) next week.
THERAPIST: I think you’re saying – I was actually – I guess I’m thinking about something that happens here sort of with the printer. Yes, it’s true that the printer let you down, but I think there’s more specificity to it. It also occurs to me that you’re upset ","P1-N400631":"now. So where most of the time you have been pretty pissed. I can see why with what you’re talking about. I’m not saying I don’t get that. But I also think that there’s a way that – There’s something about you coming in here on a day when like, a few hours ago when ","P1-N400632":"you were feeling so upset and so much at loose ends kind of spending a bunch of the time so far I think more than disappointment and frustration and pissed off.
CLIENT: It’s not that I don’t think you’ll get it. (pause) I’m just not sure that you’ll be able to help me. I just don’t know what to do at this point. I don’t know what to talk about that will be helpful. So I just am – It does get all messed up and ","P1-N400671":"I regurgitate how I was feeling or whatever and not – I don’t feel like I ever make any progress. The same thing could happen with the printer tomorrow and I could have another breakdown about it. [26:40] And I think also I have these little moments where I feel I’m in crisis. And ","P1-N400672":"then I’m able to calm down or move on just because I have to be at work and work. And then, it’s like, oh well, maybe I was just making a big deal out of nothing for myself. And maybe it’s not that bad or that I’m fine. Or, oh, I’m just being a baby or not having enough ","P1-N400673":"perspective about what’s really upsetting in life or the world.
THERAPIST: No, you’re pretty upset about some stuff. No, there’s stuff going on. I’m not saying that I understand what’s behind it, and I get that maybe you feel that you’re just overreacting or something like that.
CLIENT: I’m justMy go-to is to be that this is my fault. I’m making a big deal out of something or I’m turning this into something to be upset about or it’s my fault that I feel like this in the first place, even, choosing to surround myself with people that make me unhappy ","P1-N4006B1":"or are not right to me. But it’s my fault. [28:00] Even when they are right to me because I’m whatever. Being angry at Helen (sp) or I’m not understanding or asking enough questions or I’m not-
THERAPIST: That certainly does sound like you to feel really at the end of the day that you’re responsible for whatever’s happening. I mean, you might get mad at her for a while, but you picked her as a roommate, so really it’s on you. Obviously, I’m not saying I think it works that way.
CLIENT: No. But I feel that way. (pause) And I don’t want to feel like every time I’m having a harder time again that I’m just going to change my medication. (crying)
THERAPIST: Sure. I’d imagine that feeling there is tantamount to saying it’s just your fault. [29:06]
CLIENT: Well, you can’t fix it, so here’s some more pills.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It’s certainly not on anybody else, and the only thing that you can do about it. So yeah.
CLIENT: I felt like I was really going nuts this morning with this fucking printer. Why the fuck and I getting so upset about this fucking printer right now? But I couldn’t help it. I was so upset. Well, why can’t anything work out for me was all I could think. Why does everything have to ","P1-N400771":"get fucked up for me? I can’t – I click staple, and it fucking staples. Why does there have to be in a jam in every fucking part of the machine? (pause) [30:09] And why does Stephanie get to be engaged and living a life, and I’m fucking – I don’t feel like I have any life. ","P1-N400772":"(crying) I don’t even know what this is. I don’t even feel like I matter. What difference does it make if I’m here or not or lying in bed or committed or whatever. (pause)
THERAPIST: It really does sound like youIt’s feeling like you don’t matter and all these things really are your fault, and the best you’re going to be able to do is hopefully figure out some way to fix it. And that would prove it’s not your fault. [32:03]
CLIENT: It just continues to be really upsetting to me that this is my life right now. And it’s not how I wanted it. And it’s not how I imagined it. It’s not what I planned for. It’s just what I’m fucking stuck with.
THERAPIST: This is not at all what you wanted. You want to be with somebody, married and with a kid or two by now. And settling down somewhere.
CLIENT: Right. Instead of fucking depressed as hell, working at a job I’m tired of. Living with somebody that I hate living with and dating guys who don’t give a shit about me. (crying) [33:05] (pause) I mean, other than Stephanie and my mother, not one person reached out to me over the ","P1-N4007F1":"weekend. I have nobody messages me unless I message them, you know. And that felt shitty. Yesterday I was really feeling shitty about it. I was like, what the fuck? And this is what was going on this morning at work that made me feel like I really needed to not be at work for a couple months or something. ","P1-N4007F2":"And I just can’t get ahold of myself. [34:19] I don’t want to be fucking crying about the printer. I can’t be breaking down at work about the printer.
THERAPIST: I know that in a way that that’s the problem, but that’s not totally the problem. The problem is what you just said the problem was. That your life is totally not what you want it to be.
CLIENT: Yeah, but that’s why the printer’s making me so upset. That’s why I’m breaking down over stuff, because everything just feels like it sucks. Now I feel like I should take the 20 milligrams this week because of feeling like maybe I am a horrible roommate or maybe it’s ","P1-N400831":"not working at all or whatever. But I’m nervous, too, because maybe it is what fucked up my period and that I’m not going to get it again. And then the whole fucking thing is going to happen again. (crying) (pause) [35:49] And then Stephanie’s point was like, well no, because the last ","P1-N400832":"few months your body’s used to getting the 20 milligrams for a week out of the month, it’s probably going to be the opposite effect and fuck up the chemistry more if you stop. And I have no idea.
THERAPIST: I don’t either.
CLIENT: I mean, she’s probably right. I should just take the prescribed amount that I should take it next week and whatever. (pause) Franklin and Lucas get to just be living their lives, you know. [36:55] I mean, I feel way more resentful than upset toward Franklin about that than I do towards ","P1-N400871":"Lucas, because that was already the plan. But it’s still frustrating after the way that it ended and how he treated me to just-
THERAPIST: I know. And then just walk away.
CLIENT: Yeah. Just swept to the curb. (pause) [37:44] It just feels really bad to be close to two years into this fucking breakup and I still feel like a total wreck over it. (crying) Still feels like it was fucking yesterday. He’s lived a whole other life by now. (pause) [39:15] I just don’t ","P1-N4008B1":"want to feel like this anymore, Ethan. I don’t understand why I still feel like this. And I try to fucking take medicine that doesn’t seem to be doing anything really. [40:24] And I try to fucking date.
THERAPIST: I think that you feel kind of in freefall.
CLIENT: Totally.
THERAPIST: And as though nothing’s really slowing you down.
CLIENT: Nothing is really doing anything. That’s what it feels like. Nothing does anything. [41:33] This thing with Helen. Fuck, I should have just not brought it up, because now I’m going to have to work on stuff. Now it’s turning into a conversation where oh, that’s good, because ","P1-N400931":"I feel uncomfortable with XYZ, and I want to talk to you about it. Oh, fuck. Great. That’s just what I needed. More stuff to work on.
THERAPIST: It comes back at you.
CLIENT: Right. Everything. That’s what it feels like. Everything I do. I try to open myself up to seriously dating somebody. He comes back to me in the form of an idiot who is really annoying. [42:26] But I even though wow, I have so much to do. There’s no way I’m going to be able ","P1-N400971":"to feel sad or upset or angry. I was actually looking forward to this week in the sense that I’m going to be so busy that I won’t be able to think of anything else. And nothing will make me upset or I won’t have to close my door and cry or anything at all. And then, boom. First fucking ","P1-N400972":"thing. (pause)
THERAPIST: We should stop in a minute. But why don’t you message me in some fashion like, voice-mail or e-mail or text or something tomorrow and let me know how you are.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: If you’re still feeling this shitty we should try to find some other time to meet. I know it’s a very busy week and I know you’re saying nothing, which includes this, is sort of all that helpful right now. Still-
CLIENT: I think it would be good, too.
THERAPIST: Message me tomorrow around midday.
CLIENT: Let me look, and maybe the Wednesday would work. I mean, I think you’re right. I think we should find a time. Okay. Thanks, Josh.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I’ll be in touch.
THERAPIST: Sounds good.