TITLE: Client "S", Session March 7, 2014: Client discusses missing past relationships, attraction, and wanting to find the right person,
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses missing past relationships, attraction, and wanting to find the right person.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Morning. I’m tired today. (pause) Sorry. (pause) So after work yesterday, I went to dinner with this guy Marvin who was on the membership committee with me at the museum. We like got along and he seemed like a nice guy, so I like had said to him “We should go to dinner sometime.” ","P1-N4000D1":"We planned it, we went out. He was all flustered because he was running late and had to feed the meter and whatever.
THERAPIST: Right, right, right.
CLIENT: (pause) And like it seemed okay. We went to a tavern and the food is really good there. And it was like different than the other dates I had gone on because I’ve already had a bunch of interactions with him at the museum and at the events and whatever, which is fine, normal. So it was ","P1-N400151":"good. But he kept on like well, not kept on, but he was like asking a lot about why I quit the museum committee and what happened with Lucas. “Oh, you guys were such good friends. Like you were so funny to watch interact,” da da da.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Because I got paid today.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: (chuckles) So I was like completely unprepared for him to be like “sure.”
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: It was just a bad move. I’m really sorry. I’m all about feminism or whatever, but like on a first date, you should just not say no, you don’t split it. And like why wouldn’t he just grab it? No, you just grab it and like, I’m sorry. Anyway, so that was kind ","P1-N400291":"of like, okay. And then like whatever, he was going to his car and I was going to the subway. He did offer to drive me. He’s like “Are you sure? I can give you a ride.” I was like “no” because he lives in Malden.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So I was like “no.” So then we like hugged goodbye normal, like we always like normal. And then he texts me like “Are you home?” and I was like “Yeah.” Well, first I got home and was like really upset. I was talking to Stephanie and then I called my mom ","P1-N4002D1":"crying. This seems to be happening after like every date. (chuckles)
THERAPIST: How were you clear that he was not interested?
CLIENT: I don’t know. Because who doesn’t pay? Or if he’s broke, then I’m not interested. Like no offense, but I’m broke. I don’t need another broke person.
THERAPIST: Well, I guess the days have really felt like failures.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And it isn’t even sort of like a joint failure, you know, that he doesn’t have his act together and clearly in some ways that you’re not entirely clear about, you don’t have your act together either.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it’s just kind of all fucked up.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And with your roommate too.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. No, I have my act together in my house.
THERAPIST: I guess what I had in mind is that you picked a roommate like this or something.
CLIENT: Oh yeah, I do feel that way.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Like it’s what I was saying yesterday. Like I just feel like every decision I make is retarded.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And on top of it, I’m supposed to get my period this week, and I was supposed to get it on Monday or Tuesday, Wednesday at the latest. And I still didn’t have it this morning. I think it’s stress-related because the only person that I slept with since the last time I had my ","P1-N400631":"period was Albert once and we used a condom and for all I know, it did not break or anything and I’m on birth control.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: And so then I think about well, if I’m pregnant, I couldn’t even make the right fucking mistake decision and get pregnant by Sergio who at least I could get some money out of for child support. My mind even goes there in terms of decisions.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Like I thought of that this morning. Like well, if I’m pregnant, then it’s probably Albert’s and he’s a fucking loser and has no money. Like fuck, I fucked that up too, you know? Like I fucked this mistaken pregnancy up too if (inaudible at 00:10:16).
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Which I hope to God it doesn’t because that would be fucking pretty close to the immaculate conception like in terms of -
THERAPIST: Yeah, it would be pretty amazing if it was, yeah.
CLIENT: So I think it’s just stress-related, whatever.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: That’s bothering me too.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: (pause) The only thing I feel okay about right now is the fact that I did most of my schoolwork for the week already.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I don’t have to worry about it this weekend. (pause) But that’s only because I feel like such a mess that I feel like I wouldn’t even be able to do my schoolwork this weekend anyway, if I hadn’t done it already.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: (pause) And my brother I think is like moving this weekend into an apartment that he found with a bunch of guys who were also in the same place [ph] and they are sober and in program.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: So now my mom is going to be all wrapped up in that and needing me to help her and be supportive and be a cheerleader and maybe help carry boxes and go to the storage space. And I will obviously, but it’s just (pause) It’s just a really pervasive feeling of not having anybody ","P1-N4008B1":"who takes care of me.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (long pause)
CLIENT: Well, the assignment was due on Thursday. Wait, what are you asking? I’m sorry, what?
THERAPIST: You mentioned the only thing you’ve done is your homework next week for class since you didn’t trust yourself to do it this weekend.
CLIENT: Correct. Yeah, it was due on Thursday. I handed it in on Wednesday. That was the big assumptions list with the experiment that I don’t have fully formed.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: Or formed at all [in the assignment].
THERAPIST: That was what you had mentioned yesterday -
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: and handed in the day before.
CLIENT: Right. And it was due yesterday by midnight, but I handed it in on Wednesday just because I had already done it, I watched the lecture, whatever. I have a little bit of reading and a couple of discussion post responses that I’ll do, but like those are bullshit. And the reflective journal ","P1-N400A31":"is due on Sunday, but that’s it’s like an assigned like we have an actual “Here’s what you’re going to write on for your reflective journal.”
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But I don’t feel as much pressure with that because it’s just like blah.
THERAPIST: Right. No, no, what I was wondering about was whether you handed it in after we talked yesterday or you handed it in before.
CLIENT: No. I handed it in before -
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: and I already forgot what the experiment was. (chuckles) Like (inaudible at 00:15:00). But it’s fine because I’m sure my TA (inaudible at 00:15:05) we can get into a discussion about how I talked about it with you in therapy and what happened.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then she’ll probably come to the same conclusion, like “Well, that sounds like that was the experiment.” Like it’s already been tested or whatever. (pause) Yeah, I’m going to redo it. Why, do you think I should? Is that what you’re saying?
THERAPIST: (chuckles)
CLIENT: I don’t know.
THERAPIST: I’m laughing because -
CLIENT: Why would you be telling me to redo my assignment? (chuckles)
THERAPIST: Well, also because sort of, moreover let’s just be clear that I’m telling you to do a good enough job (voices overlapping).
CLIENT: (laughter) Right, exactly, right (inaudible at 00:15:58).
THERAPIST: (laughter) Right.
CLIENT: Even though obviously it’s not.
THERAPIST: Right. What I was wondering about is whether you felt I helped you. I mean, the fantasy I had was that you felt maybe like I helped you as we talked about it yesterday. Although I know we also talked about my making you feel worse about that.
CLIENT: No, I feel that you did help me.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But more on the level of concluding that I just kind of make my way through the course, do what I can, and use this as like some more information I can use on my own and in therapy.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: You know, as opposed to I mean, while it did help me a little bit in terms of thinking about, you know, the experiment that they’re asking me to create in a different way than I think I was making it very black and white.
THERAPIST: What we talked about.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: (long pause) I guess (pause) You know, I wonder if (pause) So it sounds as though in a kind of limited and qualified way, what we talked about yesterday was actually helpful. And I wonder if that is a little bit why you’re coming today and reminding me how everything still completely ","P1-N400DF1":"sucks, and it’s awful, and you’re horrible and nothing is any better, definitely, absolutely.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.
THERAPIST: And then I think well, you know, you’re saying all these shitty things happened. The date which went shitty, the thing with the dish and your roommate.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.
THERAPIST: The thought you had about what if you’re pregnant.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.
THERAPIST: But then I thought each one of those is kind of the same, actually.
CLIENT: How so?
THERAPIST: Well, on the face of it, the date wasn’t horrible. I mean, it was awkward that he didn’t pick up the check and a little weird.
CLIENT: Well, yeah, on the face of it, it wasn’t.
THERAPIST: But, you know, you said you didn’t have a bad time. You were fairly comfortable. It was nice that you kind of knew each other before. The only thing that was awkward was that he kept asking you about stuff which presumably he has no idea about. So like it sucked for you, but it wasn’t ","P1-N400F51":"a reflection of like things going badly between you really.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And, you know, he wouldn’t give you a ride home [because he lived in] Arlington, he checked in about how you were.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I mean, on the face of it, I guess it didn’t go horrible, and part of it is that it didn’t go so horribly that it was clearly an incredibly stupid idea to go out with him in the first place.
CLIENT: Right. That’s true.
THERAPIST: Whatever else happens. But clearly that’s not how it felt. And I guess that’s why it seems to me that maybe it’s kind of the same where I wonder if in part I don’t know. It doesn’t feel as much to me like that [as you were telling me this morning here], but ","P1-N401031":"maybe there’s a bit of it that’s like a reaction to it having gone okay.
CLIENT: Maybe.
THERAPIST: I’m not saying I know why.
CLIENT: But I still but why did I feel so sad after? And so like lukewarm.
THERAPIST: Sad about being alone?
CLIENT: I don’t know, just like -
THERAPIST: Just sad.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And lukewarm?
CLIENT: About him.
THERAPIST: Right. I think those are important, but I think it’s quite different actually from feeling like the thing was a catastrophe and he’s a complete idiot and loser and so are you. (pause) I don’t know why you felt so sad and why you felt lukewarm about him. I guess I’m ","P1-N401191":"just distinguishing those things from the sort of catastrophic awfulness that I think you also felt about it.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. Like -
THERAPIST: Go ahead [and say that].
CLIENT: Well, I felt the catastrophic awfulness because of how I felt towards him and how I felt afterward. That’s why it turned into “Oh, this is awful.”
THERAPIST: So you mean completely awful because you felt lukewarm about him?
CLIENT: Yeah, because after I left, I was like, I don’t want to be dating people that I leave seeing where I’m like “eh.” Like I don’t want to do that.
THERAPIST: I don’t know why you felt lukewarm about him. I mean, I don’t know if it’s there were clearly a couple of things that bothered you during the date, but I don’t know if it’s because of that or for some other reason. You know what I mean? Like I don’t ","P1-N4012B1":"know if you were attracted to him. I don’t know if he was like funny or fun, or if like it felt like there were moments where you had chemistry, or if the whole thing just felt kind of blah. I don’t know.
CLIENT: I don’t know. Well, I think that like being only medium attracted to him is obviously like part of it.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But that’s like all of these guys that I’m going out with, because I’ve been told by everybody around me that I need to lower my standards because the hot guys are the ones that are treating me like shit all the time.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Because everybody is like well, you could grow to be attracted to people and you could learn their personalities and then they’re attracted to them or whatever. So I’m trying to look past that, but that obviously [falls apart] and then (pause) I don’t know. (pause) And ","P1-N401391":"like I can’t even remember like when I was getting to know Bayu [ph] and what was about him that led me to talk to him or want to keep talking to him or to see him. The same for Sergio . I don’t even was it only because they were hot?
THERAPIST: I see. So you’re already pre-disappointed before you actually go out on the date even.
CLIENT: (long pause) So Stephanie saying “Dust yourself off and go on more dates,” it’s like -
THERAPIST: Yeah, you must be pretty psyched.
CLIENT: Yeah, really. (long pause)
THERAPIST: I get the impression you’re pretty sure this is never going to work.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm. (pause) Not this way. (pause) I’m just not either in the right place or time or the right type of person to be able to treat this like a job and put in all this time and search for guys on the fucking Internet. Go out with people just for the sake of doing it. Like I’m just ","P1-N4014D1":"not it’s not working for me.
THERAPIST: Mmm-hmm.
CLIENT: (pause) And I just don’t want to feel like this every time.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: It’s like, do I choose to do what Stephanie suggests and just shrug it off and do more with this background of it? Of coming home and crying and being upset every single time almost?
THERAPIST: Of course, that makes you feel worse. (long pause) I guess this is part of what you’re so isolated with, is like how disappointed you are and how pessimistic. (pause)
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I’ll see you on Monday.
CLIENT: Mmm-hmm.
THERAPIST: Have a good week.
CLIENT: Thanks, you too.