TITLE: Client "S", Session February 24, 2014: Client discusses family disagreements and arguments.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses family disagreements and arguments.
CLIENT: Got so cold again. I feel like this weather has left me with this stuffed-up nose which is for no reason. It didn’t even feel like it was that much warmer this weekend until now when it’s like, oh yeah, it was. [1:27] I went to Chicago and – Oh, yeah. I saw you in the morning ","P1-N4000B1":"on Friday. So that afternoon I got into a big argument with Stephanie. We’ve been getting into stupid arguments lately. Like, misunderstandings and miscommunicatings and not – And basically, I was saying I’m going to need her to be – I was saying (inaudible at 2:00) that morning ","P1-N4000B2":"and then I was like, I need you to be on your like, ‘cause it was so gray and yucky, I was like, you know, entertainer mode for the ride to keep me awake and blah, blah, blah.
THERAPIST: Right. It keeps happening. [3:54]
CLIENT: So we didn’t actually get to the bottom of why that’s happening. We just settled that dispute and had a fine rest of the ride. I feel like she doesn’t – like, if Lucas, the whole thing comes up or whatever, I feel like she avoids talking about it or changes the subject ","P1-N400131":"or just doesn’t. But at one point during the car ride yesterday – I tend to feel a little sad sometimes driving at night or just on the way back from that visit. I just – I don’t know, I get emotional or something. And she was, you know, sensitive to that. And then I think, you ","P1-N400132":"know, and that was nice. She was what can I do? Do you want a snack? Do you want a cigarette? What do you want? You know, she just wanted me to feel better, but she didn’t ask if I wanted to talk about it. She was just kind of like, how can I help with something to get your mind off it, I guess. ","P1-N400133":"So I don’t know. It was uncomfortable. I haven’t ever talked to her about it, so it’s not like something that I’m missing. The visit was really good. I got to meet her sister’s baby who is really cute and my cousin’s baby is really cute.
THERAPIST: That’s great.
CLIENT: Yeah, that was really nice. Nice visit. And then on the way out we stopped in to see my grandmother which was nice. And Stephanie came in and she remembered Stephanie, you know, a little bit. You know, because she hadn’t seen her since was a fat 10-year-old, probably.[5:37] But she really ","P1-N400171":"doesn’t belong in that place, and, you know, my father and my uncle go back and forth about my father says he’s going to look into Hebrew rehab. And my uncle says, so do it. And then he doesn’t do it. And then they’re talking about this doctor and my dad’s still worrying ","P1-N400172":"about getting money back from his brother from the move in the summer from moving my grandmother’s house out. And, you know, they’re just different about these dumb things. And their mother is in the facility where she doesn’t belong, where people who are arthritic and can’t ","P1-N400173":"function on their own who are senile and just screaming and drooling or who have some other sort of actual physical ailment, not just like, I’m old.
THERAPIST: The present that your uncle got. [10:59]
CLIENT: Yes. So there was this whole drama surrounding the wedding, because okay, this is his niece, okay? His brother’s oldest daughter, even though it’s his step-daughter. Whatever. And apparently there’s drama, because this is – I am on my uncle’s side. Tracy and my ","P1-N400231":"dad got them some artsy-fartsy tea set. Nothing on the registry. No check to go with it. Artsy-fartsy tea set. Here you go. First of all, 25-year-olds who are getting married don’t want a fucking tea set. Second of all, it’s – I don’ know how to explain that you can’t do ","P1-N400232":"that. Like, you can’t just get somebody something because you think it would be a nice thing for them to have for a wedding. You get something that they would say hey look, I need this and I want this because it matches everything we’re building our house around. Here’s this random ","P1-N400233":"tea set that maybe looks similar to – whatever. [12:15] and they only got the tea set. And God knows how much it cost. Who cares? My dad’s well, it’s a very nice tea set. What do you mean? You know.
THERAPIST: My impression is that, you know, in a way you actually feel insulted by it. Like, angry with how they’re being, embarrassed about how they’re being and like, it’s kind of an insult to you. It doesn’t reflect well on you. [16:43]
CLIENT: Granted, I’m making such a big deal of this baby, and this is my family and I’m trying to be close with my family, you know. I don’t have a sister, you know, this whole thing. Right. And then they go and get this shitty fucking gift. And this is their only aunt or uncle on ","P1-N4002D1":"their father’s side. You know what I mean? ‘Cause it’s a big deal. He’s their only uncle. He’s – And I mean, Sharon’s a little bit more like, who cares, because it’s not – She’s got her mother’s side of the family. It’s like not ","P1-N4002D2":"a, you know. But she knows how (inaudible due to simultaneous dialogue 17:25).
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And then Cadence (sp) was crying. She’s very sensitive. Cadence is my younger cousin, sorry, who is in college.
THERAPIST: Sharon’s sister.
CLIENT: Yes. Half-sister. Right. Because Jessica and Harrison – my uncle Harrison married Jessica who already had Sharon and then when me and Sharon were like, ten, Cadence was born and then a few years later Richard was born. So Cadence came – she’s in school in Chicago.
THERAPIST: And Richard’s in high school
CLIENT: And Richard’s in high school. He lives in Chicago with his parents. And so Cadence came for the same day that I was going to be there, so we could all have – meet Leo together and everything. And she always gets advice from me and Joseph and Sharon when we’re all together and, ","P1-N400391":"you know, because she’s in college, she’s a sophomore and she’s trying to figure her life out. And she’s come from a very – she always went to temple, lived in a very religious neighborhood. Was kind of forced to be very religious and then got to college and got her belly ","P1-N400392":"button pierced and, you know, stopped eating kosher and the whole thing. Stopped going to temple, the whole thing. Stopped wearing skirts, everything. I mean, she wasn’t really doing it in her free time anyway. She was only doing it for school reasons.
CLIENT: It’s a big change for her. Eating meat and milk. Very strange, but fine. [18:40] so she – and she’s a very sensitive girl. So she was like, started to cry because she was talking about how she doesn’t want to go home, because daddy is so mean, and daddy was yelling at ","P1-N4003D1":"her and daddy this and he was so mean and yelling at her and da, da, da. And me and Sharon were like, listen, you cannot take it personally with him. You’re learning, because you’re new to this, you’re an adult speaking to him thing. You know like, we’re a little bit more used ","P1-N4003D2":"to it and we have years more experience.
THERAPIST: They being? [20:00]
CLIENT: My aunt and my mom and my uncle. ‘Cause my mom was at my brother’s bar mitzvah. My younger brother.
THERAPIST: Your aunt and your mom. So you mean Jessica and Layla, your mom.
CLIENT: Jessica and Diane, my mom. Yeah. ‘Cause you know, she was in the family forever.
THERAPIST: I get it. I just wanted to make sure.
CLIENT: Right. Right. And, you know, Jessica asks a lot of advice about Cadence, ‘cause she’s got problems and depression and, you know, Michael and – so she’s been going to my mom for advice. So I think Jessica is kind of excited to have my mom back in the family. And so when ","P1-N4004B1":"the baby was born she called my mom and they talked for an hour or more. And Jessica had said to me already three times, the next time you come, bring your mother. You’ll stay at my house. We’ll see the baby and we’ll hang out. She’s excited. And she would never – we would ","P1-N4004B2":"never catch her putting such invitations out to Tracy. There’s just no relationship there. And partially because she’s deaf, you know. And she came into the family later. I mean, granted, she’s been married to my father longer than my mother was married to my father. Still, my mother’s ","P1-N4004B3":"been in the family obviously longer, because she had those years on her.
THERAPIST: Yeah. But that’s not it. It’s really because she’d never be close to Tracy.
CLIENT: That’s not it. Right. And they feel like they can’t relate to my dad and Tracy, and I can’t either. So, you know. And Uncle Harrison was disappointed, because, you know, he loves me and Michael and was very excited when Jesse came along, but doesn’t have a relationship ","P1-N4004F1":"with him and feels badly about that.[21:42] But he also feels like he can’t relate to – thinks he’s a little strange. You know, he’s – Tracy is all over him all the time. You know, it’s just – I feel badly about it and I feel like – Then I feel bad and ","P1-N4004F2":"like I’m betraying them if I feel more on my uncle’s side or feel the way my uncle feels. I feel a little guilty. Oh, but it’s my father and stepmother. I feel bad talking shit or whatever. Talking trash about them, but I have to agree, I think that those gifts sucked.
THERAPIST: Yeah. (pause)[23:55] I’m not quite sure what to say. You know, some things are clear that you I mean, both Stephanie visited with your grandmother, you know so your dad and the gift are trying to deal with somebody who you can tell is being impossible. And you’re sort of angry ","P1-N400531":"and frustrated and, I don’t know. It kind of makes sense, but – and helpless.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: But I feel like there’s something more there that I can’t quite put my finger on to do with. Strange to say, but kind of how personal it seems to feel to you. I said that to you before about feeling kind of insulting to you the way your father does, as though you’re responsible ","P1-N400571":"for him. [25:23]
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And it’s sort of like it’s not just like he’s doing something shitty and you’re like, oh fuck, yeah, there goes my father doing something shitty or thoughtless. It’s kind of like, oh, my God, he’ll never learn, so it’s on you that he does or something. ","P1-N4005B1":"I don’t know.
CLIENT: Yeah. Or something. And also, just like very directly, I didn’t have enough money to get her one of the bigger items that I would have loved to have gotten her. And so the fact that it wasn’t an automatic for them to do so felt like, I don’t know. [26:28]
THERAPIST: Is part of that where it’s like you wanted your family to be getting her good stuff and you don’t have a lot of money. That means your dad’s got to –
CLIENT: Pick up the slack.
THERAPIST: Right. Which he could, but he can’t.
CLIENT: And he doesn’t. And I said like, I was very specific when I was like, look at the registry with Tracy and pick something like, one of the bigger items that she needs. One of the necessity items.
THERAPIST: I mean that’s why they have registries. It’s not hard.
CLIENT: I mean, and sure there’s outfits on registries for people that like, need to spend a little bit of money.
THERAPIST: Right. No, you’re the uncle. You go on and you find something like –
CLIENT: The bottle sanitizer. The Diaper Genie. I don’t know. Like, even crib sheets would have been better than outfits. [27:29]
THERAPIST: Sure. Sure. Or if they registered for some nice decoration for the baby’s room, or something to go on the changing table or whatever. I know what you mean.
CLIENT: I mean, even my mother knitted a hat for her. Knitted. And knitted it to make sure she had it in time for the shower even.
THERAPIST: That was very thoughtful.
CLIENT: And I’m dreading – I mean, I know if I talk to my uncle and I say, you know, I want to help you guys figure out a better place for Grandma. Because my uncle feeling the last time I talked to him was, talk to your father, because he needs to find a better place for her and he said ","P1-N400751":"he was going to, and he hasn’t. ‘Cause my uncle’s going to be like yeah, good. Go ahead. Do it. And then I’m going to have to talk to my father. And he’s going to like, well Harrison this and Harrison that. [28:45]
THERAPIST: I don’t get it.
CLIENT: Like, close your purse, ‘cause everybody’s always out to get you. And he says to her, he repeats it. He says, oh, you’re lucky that you have me. You’re lucky to have me, that I come, your know, that I’m able to come. She says, oh. You know, I have another son. Right. ","P1-N4007B1":"And Harrison’s like, who’s here? As if she needed, you know, but I have this other son who’s a doctor in Providence, you know. And so there’s this whole – and Harrison feels resentful of my dad for that, for going to Providence and never coming back for not being a good ","P1-N4007B2":"big brother to him, he feels. He feels he was never really a good – He never felt like he loved him.
THERAPIST: What’s the age difference, roughly?
CLIENT: Six, seven or eight years. ‘Cause my uncle’s the youngest, then my Auntie Mattie who passed away, who committed suicide, and then my dad. And so I think it’s like six years. So you know, but the time my uncle was born, my dad was doing – or maybe it’s even eight ","P1-N4007F1":"years, you know. But anyway, I haven’t wanted to get in the middle, but now I just – this recent visit with Grandma just really made me feel that I can’t stand to see her there anymore in that place.[31:15] She doesn’t belong there. The people are senile. She’s like, I’m ","P1-N4007F2":"not in a nursing home, I’m in a senility home, an insanity home. You know. On the bright side, I think it’s made her a little less racist, because she has all these black nurses and, you know, some of them she doesn’t like, but then some of her favorite nurses are the black ones. And ","P1-N4007F3":"I think it’s just made her a little bit less racist, this whole experience, which is great. I mean, not to say that I could bring in, you know, my half-black baby and she’s be like, oh, it looks so cute.
THERAPIST: Tracy should be involved with – [33:44]
CLIENT: Everything. Always e-mail Tracy. because she’s the one that keeps the schedule and keeps it, you know. But then that blew up in my face a number of times with these e-mail things to her. And I went through and whatever, and my father not knowing about – This happened a while ago. ","P1-N400871":"Like some stuff, and quite frankly, it seems like she doesn’t give a shit what’s going on with my grandmother. You know, and they come back and I say, how is she? [34:08] Oh, she’s doing very good, very good. She’s doing well. She’s good. We had a nice visit. Every single ","P1-N400872":"time I see her, she talks about how much she hates it there. How it’s a senility home. How these people are crazy and she hates being around them. How she doesn’t belong here. How they don’t give her enough attention.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I see – I’m sort of trying to figure also like, kind of where I am in this. And my first thought was, yeah, maybe I’m sort of like your mom a little when you’re talking about your dad and you’re frustrated and upset. Oh my God, that fucker. What the hell’s ","P1-N4008B1":"he doing? Can you believe that shit? But then sometimes you’re talking more about something a bit different which is if anything there’s a strand of your feelings about sort of therapy and me that comes from him, which is, he doesn’t really ever do anything for you. [36:28] I mean, ","P1-N4008B2":"there have been ways he’s helped you out, but there are always so many strings attached that I imagine more of the time you’d rather he hadn’t done anything in the first place. And that’s when he does do something.
CLIENT: Exactly. Which is few and far between.
THERAPIST: So I don’t think it’s disappointment, but there’s that. It’s also like, you sort of get nothing.
CLIENT: Yeah. But I don’t feel that way about you. Is that what you’re suggesting?
THERAPIST: What I’m suggesting is that like, I don’t think you feel that way in general about me. That’s not my impression, nor about like, to therapy. I don’t think you’d still be here if you really felt that way.[37:19] I guess I do think there’s sort of, in the ","P1-N400931":"way that you can want, even though you know that I won’t, you want me to tell you well, try this. Here’s some advice about that. Here’s what I think I would do. I mean, because you’re talking about all these impossible situations. And I think it seems reasonable to me that in ","P1-N400932":"a way you want me to have some suggestions. Like, all right. Here’s what to do. Try and help your grandmother.
CLIENT: And I think that that comes with the fact that I feel like well, I can’t talk to my stepmom about it, because she’s kind of whatever. I can’t talk to my brother about it, because he’s – he’ll start using again or something. He’s too busy – he can’t ","P1-N400971":"– ‘cause he’s dealing with his own whatever. I can’t talk to my mom about it, ‘cause she’s dealt with it for enough years she doesn’t want anything to do with my father anymore and she has to field him enough with my brother and this right turn thing and getting ","P1-N400972":"him a job and getting him an apartment that she doesn’t want to deal with him about other things.
THERAPIST: Looking for some backup. Okay.
CLIENT: Looking for something. Right. Because I know that if I want to help out with this, I have to say something, but I’m just dreading it, because I know that I have to figure it out on my own and that, you know, I don’t really have anybody to back me up. Like, I don’t have my mom ","P1-N4009D1":"sitting down with my dad and me saying, listen, Christopher. We’ve got to get this rolling. Or Michael being like, as the grandchildren, we want to help with this. And it’s just really just me. And, you know, it’s just – again, it just feels like more of the same. It’s ","P1-N4009D2":"been so long in this whole thing, I feel like since (inaudible at 40:32) you.
THERAPIST: I’m sure you did.
CLIENT: I was like, tell me about it. You know. And then I had to go to my mom’s house, because I had a coupon for this online pet supply Web site. And it’s like, a huge bag of – and I didn’t realize the bag of food I got was so big and I have nowhere to put it in the house with ","P1-N400A31":"the cats and like, they’re going to get into it and then this huge thing of litter. I was like, argh. I’m sick of doing this all alone. I’m sick of doing all this stuff alone.
THERAPIST: We have to stop.
CLIENT: Okay. So I’ll see you on Friday morning?
THERAPIST: Yeah.