TITLE: Client "R", Session February 17, 2014: Client discusses her anger regarding the therapist's decision to stop accepting insurance several months back. Client discusses what times and days she feels best able to discuss her feelings.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses her anger regarding the therapist's decision to stop accepting insurance several months back. Client discusses what times and days she feels best able to discuss her feelings.
CLIENT: Hey Doc (ph).
THERAPIST: Hi Allison (ph). Good afternoon. [00:01:05]
CLIENT: How are you doing?
THERAPIST: I’m doing all right.
CLIENT: Remember when I stopped with you in December? I was very, very upset. I think I was feeling very rejected by your insurance decision. I don’t think I was actively, I don’t think I knew about feeling upset apart from that but I remember feeling really utterly rejected by your decision ","P1-N400141":"and it because it made me feel vulnerable and insufficient. . [00:02:46]
THERAPIST: I can imagine what you thought was difficult is feeling like I had made a decision that seemed to be for reasons different from I imagine your sort of thing and mine. This reflected a difference between us; you would not have decided against the people. [00:06:08]
CLIENT: I wouldn’t. I would want to see poor people. I got really bored seeing only people who prepay out of pocket. But that’s not the case with you. I know that you see plenty of people who don’t have insurance. But it actually turns out I had no fucking clue. I’m not in your ","P1-N4001E1":"shoes. And if I ever have a practice maybe I’ll feel completely differently. But yes, as an instinctual thing it feels bad in my gut so something would have to evolve which might be my own family, being about my people instead of wanting to be all the people. But yes. [00:07:17]
THERAPIST: But I think even now as you’re talking you’re sort of maybe reducing or sort of dismissing the possible differences. I’m not saying you’re wrong in what you’re saying I mean I understand that maybe you’re right. But I guess I wonder if there’s some ","P1-N400201":"of it motivated by it’s important to feel like actually if we were looking, if we were in the same situation we would be doing it the same way. [00:08:15]
CLIENT: Yes I think that feels pretty important. [Pause] Maybe it feels important because I don’t know much about it. If I actually knew some concrete things about your decisions and not actually you did explain it to me. It’s not like I feel in the dark about it. But stuff that you’re ","P1-N400221":"not going to explain to me. [00:09:42]
THERAPIST: Do you remember roughly what I explained?
CLIENT: You said, well I don’t know because I think some of it was influenced by your feeling guilty. But you said that the paperwork was really bad for the other, for the insurance that you were not going to take anymore. But now it occurs to me that you stopped taking all insurance. Is that true? [00:09:42]
THERAPIST: Essentially yes. Although at that point that just meant going off the insurance and [inaudible at 00:10:33] anything else.
CLIENT: I see. Have you been taking other insurance?
THERAPIST: Not in a bunch of years.
CLIENT: So, yes, so the paperwork was annoying; it took a lot of time. There is something. There’s something. You’re nervous or amused or kind of a combination of something. Paperwork, other people that you’re training who are at your level aren’t taking insurance anymore and ","P1-N4002E1":"they’re charging $200 more. [00:11:28]
THERAPIST: But at the same time you feel very uncomfortable about it, yes.
CLIENT: Yes. I see myself doing it and say whoa it’s dangerous.
THERAPIST: Yes I sort of imagine to you it would feel like questioning a parenting decision I might make or something, or somebody else might make.
CLIENT: No, there’s a compassion in my view. My grandmother is called the Mother Theresa of Kentucky, by that community, and her mother was that figure in all the ways that at least in the way that her mom and my mom talk about it. There’s a shrine with a real life-sized statue of her at ","P1-N400381":"the little temple that she built and her devotees still visit it twice a day. I mean she was their guru. And I think it’s about 50 people now who come but when she was alive it seemed like she had this incredible spiritual gift that she gave to people. [00:13:50]
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:16:36] another context. Clearly what I wanted to [part of] (ph) the upper middle way. [00:16:38]
CLIENT: That’s funny. Yes, there’s very little middle way-ness in Waltham but as a practitioner from what I see there’s a lot of upper middle way. [Pause] Some other stuff I wonder like maybe everybody else’s problems are the same. It doesn’t matter who you see, it’s ","P1-N400461":"still just as authoritative. I mean maybe it doesn’t matter what class you see or maybe if you took everybody’s insurance it would not change anything about the location or the composition because the ones you want to stay can get the screen and then they’d stay. And the ones you want ","P1-N400462":"to go are gone. Can you help me out? [00:18:46]
THERAPIST: [Pause] I guess in a way you want sort of my help making myself back into a good guy somehow. [00:19:54]
CLIENT: If that’s what you’re going to say about it. But I guess I want to know if those three things, those three reasons that I basically remember are right.
THERAPIST: Yes that sounds right. I don’t mean to be fuzzy about something that I already said but I happened to not be able to remember. But you remembered, yes, that sounds probably like what I would’ve said. [00:20:31]
CLIENT: Well I guess I want to know, I’m more curious than anything and I also do want to turn you back into a good guy, that’s true. I’m curious about whether it has changed your patient composition or if, and it doesn’t need to be answered in the case you are in, but if you ","P1-N4004E1":"think what classifications you see makes a difference to half fulfilling your record. [00:21:21]
THERAPIST: I guess as I try to think about it more closely this is a little bit desealed (ph) to me as bus driving. And if you’re a little bit trying to have me answer to you about my decision about the insurance because which I think it’s probably almost like sort of pulling yourself together ","P1-N400521":"or maybe turning the tables a bit from your not having had an iota of say or even all that much of an explanation really about something I did to you among other people. [00:24:43]
CLIENT: Yes it feels very bus drivy. It didn’t at the beginning; it did five minutes ago. It’s sort of hard to control or hard to stop myself. Not that you’re asking me to stop but I guess the feeling -
THERAPIST: Right, it kind of happens pretty simply. [00:25:37]
CLIENT: Yes. It feels like, it does feel like something that I wish something about that I could know it when it’s happening and then I could stop it and then I could not do it. [00:26:12]
THERAPIST: It’s hard. I think it’s partly a response to really feeling quite vulnerable and powerless.
CLIENT: I think I -
THERAPIST: It kind of sticks to me.
CLIENT: I think I also picked up some vulnerability in you and for some reason that made me want to go on the offensive. [00:27:01]
THERAPIST: I’m smiling because one thought is either it made you uncomfortable or maybe it would work.
CLIENT: I think both. I think it makes me uncomfortable that you’re not sometimes I picture a stoic sort of gray old man in your place who doesn’t give me any pique (ph). For the record I wouldn’t be here if that were the case.
THERAPIST: Right, good. [] (ph) where I’m concerned, yes.
CLIENT: Yes. Yes. So it doesn’t matter that you’re not that person because it wouldn’t work I think. But sometimes I feel like that would be more instead of are you leading me adrift, are you next to me, are you angering me, like that. Those questions that would be really clear like ","P1-N400681":"you’re leading me or you are not affected by me at all. And I don’t get those cues that you are not affected. Like just a few minutes ago. [00:29:25]
THERAPIST: When I was something?
CLIENT: When you were something. I don’t know why I don’t actually sort of rest or not because it’s exactly what I want but my reaction I think was just pounce.
THERAPIST: From Thursday?
CLIENT: From Thursday. Or the week has gone on and on. I haven’t cooled down from the week either but Mondays are generally coming from a pretty concertive and different place. Do you have any thoughts about why I pounced? [00:35:51]
THERAPIST: I sort of remember something about that at the moment but I am wondering whether what you just said is a certain kind of acknowledgement of vulnerability that is sort of maybe partly taking back something that you had seen in me? [00:36:49]
CLIENT: About the insurance?
THERAPIST: Well, yes or about whatever I was reacting to, yes. And then, you know Mondays I come in and I feel half baked. I feel like it reflects a little not really presenting the same way. [inaudible at 00:37:57] the couch. [00:38:08]
CLIENT: I don’t get the part about taking something back.
THERAPIST: Well before you were saying you partly pounced after having the impression that I was a bit vulnerable or responding to something and in a way that I was kind of off or not quite with it or -
CLIENT: No, you were totally on. You were totally with it. It’s what I want or it doesn’t matter what I want but -
THERAPIST: I see. You’re saying that my motive earlier seem more associated when I’m being engaged. Yes, now that makes sense.
CLIENT: But I didn’t react to it that way. This is what’s confusing or upsetting to me.
THERAPIST: I see is that you like feeling I’m that way. Naturally, I mean of course you do. And yet [laughs] [00:39:16]
CLIENT: And yet I can’t handle it somehow or I handle that sort of weird. Often shivers is a smothering reaction to it, like I want to take advantage of you or drive you around.
THERAPIST: But, and then I guess in a way that feels like it’s a little aggressive. I’m not saying that because you seem exactly aggressive to me but it sounds like it might be a little that way. [00:40:14]
CLIENT: My persona?
THERAPIST: When you use words like pounce I guess.
CLIENT: Yes well there’s a lot more where that came from. It does come out because you started talking about bus driving and it went away.
THERAPIST: We’ve just got a few minutes.
CLIENT: The association about the couch, do you still have that?
THERAPIST: That’s something possible to me, yes. I do take your point. I think you’re right that you’re talking maybe you’re not being disengaged but a little unprepared, whereas I seem like very engaged with it in that moment. Maybe not prepared in a way for what you’re ","P1-N400981":"going to do. [00:41:11]
CLIENT: And I feel that way now, today, in this session on Monday in the afternoon.
THERAPIST: Like not quite comfortable on the couch or warmed up?
CLIENT: Warmed up.
THERAPIST: Okay, yes. That’s what I thought you were saying, yes. So it seems to fit although I’m not sure what more to do with it. Yes.
CLIENT: I had some really me experiences in Maine. The lake has frozen over which I never, doesn’t happen very often. We walked and cross-country skied and snow shoed all around these little crevices and bays and I was a bit onto the open ice. It was so mysterious on the icebergs. There’s ","P1-N400A21":"snow on top of ice but there’s some areas with black ice. And it’s this huge body of water underneath and it’s alive and you can hear it when you’re on top of it. [00:42:45]
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: They’re savvy.
THERAPIST: Oh, thanks.
CLIENT: Are they new?
THERAPIST: No, it’s not quite snowy enough for boots. It’s five blocks so we’re in good enough shape but it would take a little more than [inaudible at 00:45:42]on my shoes so.
CLIENT: [inaudible at 00:45:48].