TITLE: Client "R", Session January 31, 2014: Client discusses relationship with spouse.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses relationship with spouse.
CLIENT: [inaudible – 00:49] it didn’t [inaudible – 01:00]. [Pause.] You know when I said the thing about how I stopped seeing you, I might talk less about stuff?
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: And he doesn’t like to hear that. That was like really complicated and it’s not at all what I man. But I don’t know what I mean. I think my stopping seeing you and my talking to Jeremy about stuff aren’t really that related. I think what’s bothering me is the difference ","P1-N4000F1":"between me and Jeremy. And somehow that feels like sometimes it feels like that will go away when you away, but I don’t think that’s true at all. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: Uh huh.. [Pause.]
CLIENT: He’s got this like really intense self, like undercurrent. [Pause.] And now like his day job makes him sad many days. But it’s like better than any job he’s had. And that often feeds back and negatively impacts each other.
THERAPIST: Uh huh. [Pause.]
CLIENT: Yeah, he’s a complex relationship with all the things like, really scared about the idea of having children. All the shame about not working good in his day job, good in his music. How is he ever going to make any money? He wants to make a lot of money. How long do you…? [Pause.] ","P1-N4002B1":"He worries. [Pause.]
CLIENT: I’m not sure why…a little bit [inaudible – 23:29]. I just think that…you guess it’s really hard not to want to… [Pause.]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I imagine a lot because [inaudible – 25:36] both very painful. And I think, probably also makes you very anxious or uncomfortable to see him struggle in the way you’re talking about.
CLIENT: It’s like the only time that I remember being very very anxious in college. It’s the only times Jeremy was really struggling which was like I don’t know it didn’t seem as often. It was the same like sense of he’s helpless. He’s in like this cycle that feels ","P1-N400371":"like it’s going nowhere with repeating painful patterns. In school, it was way worse for a variety of reasons. And then it’s like I’m helpless. It’s really hard to feel positive about anything. And then college, I would be like not be able to see if he had like woken up in the ","P1-N400372":"early afternoon. Feel a sense of like of emptiness and loss and fear when…
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: That is an infuriating view. Basically, when she told me that story that she was saying to my dad, like, so I’m saying like Allison saved Jeremy, and my dad looked at her and he was like, Jeremy saved Allison. Yeah, lately it’s been really…
THERAPIST: That’s much better.
CLIENT: Neither of them is good.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But lately it’s been…
THERAPIST: The last one is less infuriating, especially the way your dad meant it.
CLIENT: I think it’s true. I think over the course of a lifetime we, one of us is saving the other one.
THERAPIST: I guess I have a sense that he didn’t necessarily 100% mean exactly that, but he was correcting…
CLIENT: Yeah. Yes, my dad totally…but Jeremy kind of has that view too. Like everybody is just kind of crazy about this. He kind of will say, sometimes I feel as like to me, it helps to think about like times when I really achieved something that I cared a lot about. When I asked Jeremy about ","P1-N400591":"that, the only thing that he’s ever achieved, like the biggest and best achievement was me. It’s really like nothing else. I dig a little and there’s a little bit more in his life that he considers important and significant. I think he really views his life that way. It doesn’t ","P1-N400592":"make me feel that great, especially because I don’t view our relationship like that. I have so many people who are so important to me in such an intense way and they come and go, and like that’s always going to be a part…one of the most meaningful parts of my life. I don’t have ","P1-N400593":"that same good review about anybody. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: [inaudible – 39:23] I know you had…
THERAPIST: Let’s talk more on Monday. But I, I’m pretty sure I have a mid-morning time on Wednesday. I also have, I know I’ll have a 4:30 time on Wednesday. That’s pretty much…but I have to go through it this weekend.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: We should stop.
CLIENT: Okay, if they have anything like before 8:30 on Tuesday…
THERAPIST: Tuesday before 8:30?
CLIENT: Yeah. Like before 8:15 on Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Okay. That, I probably won’t.
CLIENT: [inaudible – 40:42]
THERAPIST: Okay. Let me know if you think of any.