TITLE: Client "R", Session January 30, 2014: Client discusses anxiety and respecting one's marriage.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses anxiety and respecting one's marriage.
THERAPIST: I need to see where you’re going.
CLIENT: I know. I’m going there.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I think there’s a pattern to it.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: Even though it’s been [inaudible – 00:40]. Because Mondays are the beginning of the week… [Pause.] I’m too anxious or something.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: Or for things to just like, I just feel like a much better flow over there. Because it’s so long, and then [inaudible – 01:38] separation gaps whereas like the one that does the worst. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: How do you feel more open on the couch and more safe in the chair?
CLIENT: Yeah, I feel like I have more…because if I’m on the couch, it [pause] if I’m choosing stay on the couch, I’m, I have an easier, it means that I have an easier time with silence that day. It’s like the simplest way to connect. And if I don’t feel like I have ","P1-N400211":"any, I’m going to have an easier time with silence or [pause], it’s like that’s going to be, because that feels like too much. It’s much easier to be in the chair.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Which I know how to do.
THERAPIST: Yep. [Pause.]
CLIENT: Like both of those days [inaudible – 04:34] last weekend and the beginning of this week, I felt like if I were to use the couch that day I would like lie in silence and like suffer through wanting to talk about a bunch of different things and not like knowing how to start or worried I ","P1-N4002B1":"didn’t have enough time or yeah. Somehow like that didn’t happen at all. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: And you sound concerned there that I might not think it’s a good idea, which I think you must be worried that I wouldn’t understand how anxious and, in a way like sort of debilitated you would feel.
CLIENT: If you didn’t understand or if I were to use the couch?
THERAPIST: If I were to object or recommend that you don’t sit in the chair but use the couch, that it would feel like I was missing.
CLIENT: Yeah, it would. But honestly, if you were to say that, which you wouldn’t, I would…I don’t think I would have any problems feeling sorry. That’s how I’m going to be through the time that it feels like it’s right because I think it’s useful. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: But…[Pause.]
CLIENT: Shouldn’t you be at the hospital?
THERAPIST: [Pause.]
THERAPIST: [Laughs.] Go ahead.
CLIENT: I feel like saying that you…you want to see me blow up? That’s a blow up. I’ll go ahead one potential one last time. And I’m happy you’re getting to see this side, but it feels really different. Like what are we doing here? What’s important? [Pause.] I’m ","P1-N400411":"mad that you’re not a dad with flexibility or a husband with flexibility in your work schedule. I’m also mad that I’m not special enough for you to say, well, if it were any other patient; well, I don’t know. It’s complicated. It’s like it’s I almost want you ","P1-N400412":"to make an exception with me. Like should understand or like…I don’t know. Have a special understanding so it’s okay to leave.
THERAPIST: Well, it seems that you’re angry with me for being maybe kind of oblivious.
CLIENT: Yeah, like making the wrong choice or like making a…
THERAPIST: I got in mind that like I’m oblivious to, I assume it’s my family who needs me or whoever it is who needs me. I’m not really putting that together correctly. Like my priorities are out of whack.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like duh. And I’m also not getting that you would not only, in a way be fine with my saying I have to leave for this reason, but you feel like I was treating you respectfully or even an almost kind of special way knowing you would understand.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But I’m oblivious about that too. I think. I…
CLIENT: Yeah, but isn’t that the whole thing?
THERAPIST: Yeah. [Pause.] And I’m oblivious about, I think, like why you want to sit in the chair and the fact that you’d be able to like assert with me that you do.
CLIENT: Yeah. [inaudible – 13:49] that.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: I don’t think so. I don’t think that you would say anything about what you think I should do. Because I sat in a myriad of places in the chair and you didn’t say anything about that. So.
THERAPIST: I thought so because you seem to me like you were making like a bit of an argument to me.
CLIENT: Yeah, I was.
THERAPIST: But it’s not because I wouldn’t get it.
CLIENT: Right. It’s because that maybe you were thinking in your head like, hmm, hmm. And you wouldn’t think, I don’t think that you wouldn’t say anything to me.
THERAPIST: I’m always thinking. I’m not sure what the content of it was that time.
CLIENT: I don’t know. Like hmm, it’s not as fishy.
THERAPIST: [Laughter.]
CLIENT: And I guess I wanted to make it clear like I know it’s kind of fishy, but it’s going to turn out fine to help us because it’s like letting something out that feels stuck on the couch.
THERAPIST: I guess that’s maybe…okay.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: I was going to say I…
CLIENT: Because look how much we’re talking about it. Point one. Instead of your being at the hospital talking about the past vs. the chair. So important. I think that’s what was going through my head when I said it. So dumb. What are you doing here?
THERAPIST: I mean that seems like the stronger, like the thing you had stronger feelings about.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: My being here rather than the hospital.
CLIENT: I don’t know. I don’t; it wouldn’t like I’d be left. I think I underestimate how sad that would be in that moment I pushed that away. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: Which maybe is also a bit who you’re pushing away sitting in the chair?
CLIENT: The one who’d be sad to do that.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and who feels like bad and out of sorts after the longer break.
CLIENT: Uh huh. And before the longer breaks.
THERAPIST: Yeah, two breaks. Yeah. [Pause.] And it seems to me like she often has to deal with people who are oblivious of her.
CLIENT: There’s this first year graduate student in my lab named Albi.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: He’s so sweet. I’m so glad he joined the lab. Just so [inaudible – 17:56]. He’s like simple and easy guy. He’s just like; he has this like huge grin on his face whenever he sees me. And like other times, and he wants to know like all about…he’s just ","P1-N400971":"very curious to be just like so mild mannered and so lovely to be around. And he’s got this like, I have a sister side that a lot of men and boys have. Like my brother has it. Where you just like talk to them for two minutes and you’re like you totally understand women. You just got it. ","P1-N400972":"I don’t know why that has anything to do with having a sister, but over time I’ve noticed that it’s always, almost always true.
THERAPIST: It reminds me a little bit of your anger at me about not going to the hospital. In a way, I think that’s…
CLIENT: You say that as it happened like two weeks ago.
THERAPIST: You mean instead of like three minutes ago or whatever? How you feel?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I don’t…
CLIENT: In my mind, we’re still talking; we’re like still talking about it. The obliviousness came from the hospital thing. So.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Sorry.
THERAPIST: No, that’s okay. You said so much [inaudible – 24:08]. [Pause.]
CLIENT: Now you’re getting some snark. Just coming. It’s a really good sign. And it’s not free to comment on [inaudible – 24:30].
THERAPIST: [inaudible – 24:31] snark. But I think part of what you’re saying, you know, like part of what you’re saying, the hospital’s like don’t deal with the me that you’re seeing here that seems together. Deal with that me that’s really having trouble.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And where it goes like there’s something really the matter. And don’t fucking be oblivious.
CLIENT: If I’m telling you to go to the hospital, that’s telling you to deal with the me that seems put together.
THERAPIST: Well, I think it is and it isn’t. In reality, I agree. But I think in your fantasy, you are displacing that other part of yourself to…
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Actually, you kind of get to have your cake and eat it too that way, in a way.
CLIENT: Well, that’s because you stayed and now we can talk about it. Is that what you mean?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: Huh uh.
THERAPIST: Not that I disagree with you, but that’s not why I…what I had in mind is I’m sort of at once, probably reflects two things that you both want me to…kind of other people like to, well I mean particularly me, to appreciate and think what other part of you that can handle things.
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: And to really pay attention to the part that cannot.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So I’m helping both by going to the hospital.
CLIENT: Like if you go to the hospital, the part that cannot will come out sometimes, and then they’ll pay attention.
THERAPIST: Or in your fantasy where that’s you.
CLIENT: You. I see.
THERAPIST: I really am there for people who really need it.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: And at some moments, that’s you. [Pause.]
CLIENT: Yeah, like you, evaluated okay, [inaudible – 27:32]. [Pause.] I think it’s a little more than that. I think it’s like that dad did it like you didn’t get to be a part of your kid’s Halloween that day on Halloween.
THERAPIST: I remember something about me not getting to be a part of my kid’s Halloween, but I’m not sure who I spent Halloween with.
CLIENT: I didn’t really talk about it with you. I just said at the end of our session which is on Thursday, on how you had the class and class was cancelled.
THERAPIST: Right. And I wouldn’t, I think I wouldn’t answer you.
CLIENT: And you didn’t answer me and I was like, but I was really worried for a while that you might go to your class on Halloween.
THERAPIST: Instead of Halloween.
CLIENT: Like you’re telling me now.
THERAPIST: [Laughter.] About to end.
CLIENT: Yeah, you were telling me now like it’s already Halloween. Like I haven’t been home in two years. That’s how I interpreted it.
THERAPIST: Wait. I think I maybe missing the point. Like it, you brought this up on Halloween rather than in advance. But you think…
CLIENT: Well like I said to you that’s it’s been bothering me for like a couple of weeks. You were like your telling me now and not when it came up.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: [inaudible – 29:12] our session is ending.
THERAPIST: Oh okay.
CLIENT: I don’t know.
THERAPIST: The former sounds more like something I could imagine myself saying.
CLIENT: [inaudible – 29:24]. [Pause.] So it’s like that Jay, like, just doesn’t get what’s important.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And I worry about other things, like school plays and like school concerts. There’s all this stuff that happens that’s [inaudible – 29:45]. Maybe at school concerts or school plays. But I imagine there’s some stuff. I worry about how you do it. If you do it and how you ","P1-N401131":"do it. The hospital thing comes after.
THERAPIST: Sure. Yeah. [Pause.]
CLIENT: And I also hear like Emily’s voice in my head Bob has to get back to be with his patients. And I hear like the slightest bit of irritation. And I’m sure it’s lot a huge amount of irritation, actually, but you know day in\/day out year after year.
THERAPIST: In Emily’s voice you think?
CLIENT: In Emily’s voice. But I hear only the slightest bit, but I imagine that there’s…but it’s a hard thing to balance.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So I’m not saying that Emily is only slightly irritated. I’m just saying that I don’t hear. So it’s like yeah. You know, like why Bob isn’t staying the extra two days in Vermont. And it’s like, “Bob’s got to go back to work on Monday. Bob has to ","P1-N401211":"work on Monday.” And like, I just…I guess I have like a…I wonder a lot about like what that’s like for your family and how you manage it and whether you’re doing it badly.
THERAPIST: But you have moments you’re [inaudible – 31:34].
CLIENT: Like today.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: But you know, it didn’t really occur to me that it’s not your family that’s in the hospital. It could not be. And it doesn’t occur to me that you show up for important stuff. Somehow that’s, or like it occurs a lot later. That you probably... are devoted and why you are here.
THERAPIST: Right. [Pause.]
CLIENT: So what made you say that it seems to you like people are oblivious of me? [Pause.]
THERAPIST: I had in mind oblivious of the more anxious, more upset, more sort of fragile feeling part of you. Does that answer your question?
CLIENT: Not really, but it helps. And it also brings up like my mom’s refrain around how badly I was standing around at my wedding. I don’t know, as soon as you said that I started hearing her voice. “We just didn’t know. You seemed fine. We didn’t know.”
THERAPIST: I don’t know if you told me about her saying that in particular, though, you probably have. But I remember things like that and I was also thinking of how you, I mean I think I know a person pretty well, but this has changed, I think, quite a lot how you have been oblivious at times.
CLIENT: Yeah, my answer to her every time it’s come up and I think that’s only because it hasn’t come up that recently. In the past, since the wedding, my answer to her has been, “Mom, I didn’t know either.” I’m not sure that you could have known. I didn’t know.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: It’s like, but you still like go to sleep and wake up the next morning and live your life. And it’s just hard for me to convey to anyone how traumatic of a switch it was. So it’s like, okay, like I didn’t know some things, but I definitely knew some other things and the ","P1-N401411":"fact that you didn’t know kind of…I think it really like stifled my ability to understand and cope, respond in like any way at all.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: So, I think I resent her a little bit for that. And maybe [inaudible – 37:17] because I notice that I like tried pretty hard to make [inaudible – 37:20]. I don’t expect that she should have known because I didn’t know. But it’s like if you had known, that would ","P1-N401451":"have been way easier.
THERAPIST: Yep.
CLIENT: Or if you had known anything about yourself…or like I had some reference for like how one moves through something bad. That would have been easier too.
THERAPIST: Uh huh. [Pause.]
CLIENT: Yep. Times, they are a changing.
THERAPIST: [Laughs.]
CLIENT: I figured out this guy’s docile and I was reading a book about his anxiety. And it was reviewed in the New York Times and The New Yorker a lot this past week. And in the article, something that was like formulated in a way that was really nice to read because I had been thinking about ","P1-N401551":"it for a long time in a lot of different ways. I hadn’t really known like how to say it. So it was nice to read somebody else’s words.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And since I had managed anxiety in just about every other person I ever met, so…it seems pretty [inaudible – 40:18] and I wonder why it’s there. And the article split it in to three theories…yeah, three theories. One being like this sort of psychoanalytic unconscious ","P1-N4015D1":"drive thing which adjusts, but the anxiety can be shifted or relieved or changed in some way. It’s older, or unconscious conflicts are made conscious and dealt with. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: Umm.
CLIENT: I mean I’m paraphrasing it. I realize, [inaudible – 41:35] I do. So that’s why.
THERAPIST: Yeah. It’s what I understand to be like the theory of anxiety, but that’s broken irrelevant.
CLIENT: Well, I guess, the author doesn’t say psychoanalytic [inaudible – 42:01]. So it would be nice to hear what you think about that. It’s very relevant to me.
THERAPIST: Okay. I can just tell you. It’s very short. Anxiety is a response to an internal danger.
CLIENT: Uh huh. Don’t you think that’s a super [inaudible – 42:35] or what I read the article said? Unconscious guide.
THERAPIST: I thought that’s what he was saying that’s when unconscious drives can be sort of made conscious they were saying. But I didn’t answer correctly.
CLIENT: No. Anxiety arises from unconscious conflict. Or he used the word “drive.”
THERAPIST: Anxiety arises from unconscious drives. It seems very vague to me.
CLIENT: I know. Yeah, he said a little more about it. I didn’t…None of the…
THERAPIST: In the initial, [inaudible – 43:13] anxiety was that when drives, which mean like basic things with sex drive and an aggressive drive weren’t being, and the aggressive drive is complicated, but basically. And his real idea was that when they were kind of damned up and not being ","P1-N401731":"expressed, anxiety resulted. And his later theory was that no, in fact, that was sort of backwards that the relation between the drives and the anxiety was that the drives involved wishes that aroused sort of internal fears. Like the wishes were for things that were not okay. And that made them scary. ","P1-N401732":"And that’s where anxiety came from.
CLIENT: I think he didn’t get that part.
THERAPIST: And I think he even sort of later non-drive theorized, but he probably skipped, basically, like that piece.
CLIENT: Like I respond to our wishes, unconscious or conscious, or our sort of dream reaction to them.
THERAPIST: Well, but like you’re afraid of getting eaten by a ravaging lion. That’s fear. If you’re afraid that a… [Pause.]
CLIENT: An example that involved [inaudible – 45:15].
THERAPIST: That’s what I’m thinking is when in [inaudible – 45:19] such an example. You know what we’re talking about is essentially like your separation anxiety. Coming up around the wedding, a big wedding. So, you could say they were talking…the people like, though you ","P1-N401811":"are more eager and excited to get married, the, in your head, the space, like the distance that put between you and your parents made you very anxious.
CLIENT: And I think that wasn’t okay. It’s like there is no room for…
THERAPIST: And then there’s a second problem, I think. You think you’re feeling kind of anxious and kind of overwhelmed and your internal parents don’t leave much room for that, whereas your external ones often don’t either. But they didn’t even get that far.
CLIENT: No.
THERAPIST: Because you aren’t aware of it. In other words, you couldn’t let yourself be aware of it because internally, they don’t need any space.
CLIENT: Uh huh, and somehow like what they leave space or don’t leave space for is more important than when I leave space for.
THERAPIST: I mean in as much as they’re your internal parents, they’re also you.
CLIENT: Yeah. So that theory about anxiety would suggest that people have, well, I don’t know. Do people have one sort of type of wish, like one general group of wishes that make them anxious? Who’s fear of, make them anxious, over and over and over again in their life? Or is it like wishes ","P1-N401911":"come and they go and they keep being scary and there keeps being not enough space for them? [Pause.]
THERAPIST: Sorry. I was distracted by that thought. But I mean, let me say it again. The…
CLIENT: [inaudible – 48:57] phone.
THERAPIST: Well, your phone is going nuts over there.
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: I don’t think the phone, itself, is distracting, although maybe. But what was distracting me was like, gosh, somebody really seems to be trying to get in touch with [Allison – 49:13].
CLIENT: I am really oblivious to it.
THERAPIST: She’s not paying attention to it. Exactly.
CLIENT: I don’t care about this part over there. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: So, sorry I brought up your phone.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Um.
CLIENT: One wish. [inaudible – 53:03] what you need.
THERAPIST: Yeah, no. It’s not that it got me talking about something else. It’s that my impression was that it conveyed it as that I didn’t understand that actually really you wanted to be here and talk to me right now. [Pause.]
CLIENT: [inaudible – 53:45].
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I was worried that I would like be still on the phone when I walked in here because it’s like you said good-bye and we had to say good-bye like three or four more times. I think it’s called Jewish, actually, so don’t slap me.
THERAPIST: I’m not. [Laughing.]
CLIENT: [inaudible – 54:44] and good-bye. So yeah, I didn’t expect to be on the phone, but I was on the phone and I just started like, I don’t know; I had that pause about like what I wanted to walk in on the phone and just I decided not to. And then you asked about it. [inaudible – 55:19].
THERAPIST: Uh huh. It’s…and it’s like something that’s no longer…
CLIENT: Oh, like a vestige?
THERAPIST: Yeah, like a…it’s not adaptive in the present.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: But also hasn’t been selected against.
CLIENT: I’ve only heard that idea come up in the context of like vestige or [inaudible – 57:03].
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: But yes, exactly. There’s a similar theory about auto-immune diseases. Kind of like the hygiene hypothesis, which is like we’ve evolved to protect against home and foreign diseases. There’s like a whole nother arm that, I think is TH2 arm of immunity that is important for worms ","P1-N401D31":"and then the bacteria and virus immunity is TH1. That’s like another set of cells, molecules. The TH2 type of immunity is people think that that’s what it’s in over drives in many cases on immunity. But like there is this inappropriate response to self.
THERAPIST: Like trying to remain healthy worms.
CLIENT: What?
THERAPIST: We’re trying to remain healthy worms?
CLIENT: Like we’re; if we had worms to fight, that immune, part of our immune system would be educated and wouldn’t act inappropriately against ourselves.
THERAPIST: Gotcha.
CLIENT: It was like this whole cool, this very cool like process, like exposure educating your immune system.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: And it’s like we just don’t see worms, but there are lots of like self…I know people aren’t clear on like a lot of this. But it’s like the TH2 response is like a vestige of earlier times. And it’s causing a lot of trouble in the case of in like modern times ","P1-N401E51":"people are like more, oh he’s just [inaudible – 59:11] and asthma and you know, a little bit Type I Diabetes and…
THERAPIST: Arthritis.
CLIENT: Arthritis, yeah. So one theory is like if you give people worm treatment, which like they’ve tried in Crohn’s disease, which is another case we can find too exhausting to [inaudible – 59:47] to be. It seems to help in isolated cases. But I don’t know it well enough, I ","P1-N401E91":"don’t think. I think there’s too much more to it. [Pause.] [inaudible – 1:00:30].
THERAPIST: Okay, can you remind me…?
CLIENT: Do people have one reason why they have anxiety? Like one, so like maybe for me, like in my whole life anxiety will come up in the context of separation anxiety. Or is it just like this is what…?
THERAPIST: This is a very small number.
CLIENT: Uh huh.
THERAPIST: Maybe, but it’s got like displaced in to everything. But you at least think back to like when you suggest that.
CLIENT: Have you found that to be true? Or does it seem like that to you?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Yeah it does. Yeah.
CLIENT: So doesn’t that sort of suggest that one’s relationship with their anxiety…I don’t know. I’d like to make a lot of progress in it. It may not have an in [inaudible – 1:02:36] I’m familiar with an answer. [Pause.] And that part, I also don’t mean ","P1-N401FB1":"like anything blaming in on or anything specific. It just means like me knowing myself and what makes me anxious.
THERAPIST: Uh huh. Yeah. I mean that, I guess in a way you could say that’s the only way therapy, you know, could work, actually.
CLIENT: Uh huh. Like helping us know?
THERAPIST: Well, like, could say like in as much as it puts out like using narratives about what’s going on to help with the anxiety. In a way, it only can work broadly if there’s just a few.
CLIENT: Right. Well I don’t know. Maybe it doesn’t work. Probably; like maybe it works for some big chunk of your life and then you have to do it all over again. Or not being [inaudible – 1:04:47]. I don’t think that’s the only reason to be in therapy. I really don’t ","P1-N402051":"know. I don’t know what people do. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: Yeah, I mean there are reasons that, you know, everybody else’s are helpful sometimes, but in my experience, maybe not that one. Another way to see the point is or to like make that point is like this is kind of how transference works. Like you come in and we produce something from ","P1-N402071":"outside. And that’s cropping up everywhere in the present too.
CLIENT: Right, and that’s not going to be some like completely different thing in 30 years.
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: Humans are so slow. A human is so complex. It’s some combination of slowness and…
THERAPIST: And then I’m not sure if you also mean like he won’t get to talk about that.
CLIENT: No, I won’t have. I won’t have much to say.
THERAPIST: I see. Okay.
CLIENT: I would like have figured out some way to talk about it with other people with some other way to talk about it with other people or some other way to really to, but like talking about with yourself all the time isn’t, it’s not like working at all.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Or at least I think it brings up lots of stuff that [inaudible – 1:10]. And the time it’s like, and where is your journey. Like, for me, it’s like why aren’t you coming home. [inaudible – 1:11].
THERAPIST: I assume you mean the part like when you ask that like that kind of makes you feel bad.
CLIENT: Yeah. I don’t actually directly ask that. I’m not sure. [Pause.] [inaudible – 1:11:52]. But, I mean it comes down, it’s kind of like a [inaudible – 1:12:04] that she; I’m talking about how like when my brother, who’s friends are like going to graduate ","P1-N402231":"school in the fall this year, how like for couples, have got a time in their life, if not the future often brings up stuff about how, like hard stuff in a relationship. And [inaudible – 1:14:09] hard to do but it, I don’t know. When you come to a juncture, you come to a juncture. And I was ","P1-N402232":"saying like, and there are some people who think about the future like way too much in their relationships. [inaudible – 1:14:35] children, and a house. And my mom is like I’m like that, and that’s why I never dated anyone. [inaudible – 1:14:48] talked about dating. Because I ","P1-N402233":"would always, I would probably always wonder or knew I always wonder where is this going? Are we going to get married? And I just like didn’t waste my time if I didn’t know that it was going to end in marriage. Why do it? I asked, do you think that’s the only reason to go on a date? ","P1-N402234":"And I was like, I don’t know, but it’s a waste of time. It was a waste of time for me. She was very careful to say that for her it felt like that it wasn’t going to work because she would be too worried about the future. I was like maybe there’s another way of saying that is ","P1-N402235":"that you really didn’t want to get hurt by anyone. I’m like once, more, it’s a waste of time. No, I wonder if you like just are missing a whole part of that of how much pain there is when relationships end. It was sort of like, yeah. That was satisfying. Because I’ve always viewed ","P1-N402236":"the difference in between how my mom approached dating and through her and how I approach dating to be like an inferior. Like mom and more whatever, more discipline, more highest, not to self, better, saving yourself, whatever it is. More care.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And now I feel so differently about. Like oh, like I didn’t fear being hurt enough to not engage with people [inaudible – 1:17:20].
THERAPIST: Well, yeah, I mean I can see that there’s a superiority there and it’s a waste of time and how for me to meet. But they’re true also a little [inaudible – 1:18:47].
CLIENT: Yeah. Well, it’s similar like [inaudible – 1:19:01] have sex and they sleep in the same bed when they’re together or sleep over each other’s apartment. And I like, wasn’t that tactful and maybe I should have been there. I don’t feel badly about it. But since ","P1-N4022F1":"Maggie, I had stay over, I [inaudible – 1:19:23]. Like yeah, she was there. Maybe like rub it with, it’s going to say something different if you ask him. But I’m not going to lie to you. I would be lying to you. She was like well, we don’t pretend. We don’t like pretend. ","P1-N4022F2":"If it doesn’t happen you just ask that it not happen in our house out of respect. And I was like respect of what?
THERAPIST: [Laughing.]
CLIENT: And she was like respect of what.
THERAPIST: [Laughs.]
CLIENT: And she was like respect of marriage. I was like things are making more sense. Like that’s the only way that you think is the best way, like the only way you think two people can respect marriage is if they don’t sleep in the same bed before. I was like how about this? How about ","P1-N402371":"we don’t sleep in the same bed at your house because you guys are really important me respecting you. And I thought okay. I never respected that role because it had anything to do with marriage; I respected it because of you guys. That’s probably where it’s coming from too. There are ","P1-N402372":"lots of ways to respect marriage. That don’t have to do with sex. But that one was hard. That one did not fly or like rest. Like the dating thing felt like…I don’t think I got anywhere.
THERAPIST: We should stop now.
CLIENT: Okay.