TITLE: Client "R", Session January 28, 2014: Client discusses yoga and family health.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses yoga and family health.
THERAPIST: On your new insurance, I wasn’t sure if they’d send it to you or to me.
CLIENT: I got three claims January 2nd and 3rd rejected by the insurance saying that I had exceeded my maximum visits.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. That was from last year.
CLIENT: That must have been from the other insurance.
THERAPIST: Yeah, I thought I got something saying that…maybe I just didn’t look carefully. But I thought it was stuff saying…anyway. I, personally, I think I also said that you still have your deductible. So I don’t know how we could have done. Anyway, whatever. We’ll leave it be.
CLIENT: Did you submit three claims on those dates to my other, to my insurance?
THERAPIST: These are for dates in January?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Oh really? Oh, I’ll double check. Okay, I have your new insurance. Right. You gave it to me.
CLIENT: It’s the same as the other BU number. I didn’t give you it…anything.
THERAPIST: Alright. I probably got confused.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It’s the same as the old one?
CLIENT: Yeah. It’s the same…it’s the same number. It’s the same account. It’s just a PPP now.
THERAPIST: Right. That completely makes sense. I don’t know why I keep flubbing this, but…
CLIENT: That’s okay. So that’s probably what that was.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Right.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: So then you were talking about something else?
THERAPIST: I don’t know, really. Apparently, I don’t know [Laughter.]. So let me look in to it and then I’ll get back to you when I know what I’m talking about. I’ll do it this weekend, or [inaudible – 01:57] anyway.
CLIENT: Okay. Okay. If they send me…so they send me checks from the end of last year, can I just like write them over to you?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Or do I have to deposit them and then write you another check?
THERAPIST: You can write them over to me.
CLIENT: How do I do that?
THERAPIST: People do that. I think…I’m not sure. You should look it up. But I think what people do is write, “Pay to the order of,” and then my name, and then they sign it.
CLIENT: Like on the back?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: Okay. I’ve seen people write like for a deposit only, but that is that.
THERAPIST: That’s different. Yeah.
CLIENT: Uh…
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think it’s “Pay to the order of,” me, and then just like your signature under it.
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: And then I sign it and send to the bank [inaudible – 03:00]
CLIENT: Okay. I would like to do that. Hi.
THERAPIST: Good morning.
CLIENT: Nice to see you.
THERAPIST: Likewise.
CLIENT: You don’t have an iPhone charger here, do you?
THERAPIST: I have a charger that will work. Is it iPhone 5 or an older one? I don’t have one of those here.
CLIENT: I left mine home today.
THERAPIST: Oh.
CLIENT: I started working out because it’s nice to have my phone be dead, but it’s like a little bit [inaudible – 04:03]. I left my toothbrush there. I’m getting a package with my charger and my toothbrush. I don’t know whether to buy a new charger today or wait for the ","P1-N400691":"package. My electric toothbrush. Do you use an electric toothbrush? I thought so.
THERAPIST: [Laughs].
CLIENT: They’re so cool. I just got mine. The retreat, like weekend, like all the nice relaxing like soul feeding things that are out there, like all in one weekend is really cool. [inaudible – 05:57] and I had like a couple hours before people were going to be free, so I just hopped in ","P1-N4006D1":"to a Yoga class .
THERAPIST: Talking about not much separation. Is that what you said?
CLIENT: If you’re lucky, there’s an assistant in the class.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: And at the studio that’s closest to my house in Waltham, once a year, for like a couple of months, they have their teacher training. More like the teacher training is over and the new teacher is like get to practice and they teach community class, which is like reduced price and it’s ","P1-N400791":"their first or second or third class that they ever taught. And then like two or three other teachers will come and assist, which means they spend the whole class touching, [inaudible – 08:45] and it’s the best feeling ever.
THERAPIST: Like…
CLIENT: Yeah, you lift your leg. Your leg’s straight up. The best, like touch, that I’ve ever had came in that class during that pose. The woman like came in front of me and made me do straight up and she like hugs my feet close to her chest.
THERAPIST: Your leg.
CLIENT: My legs. [inaudible – 10:20] to my legs. They were like straight up and my [inaudible – 10:26] like grabs on to my feet and like proceeds to give me a foot rub in the pose for like five minutes. I could feel like every muscle in my body just like, sigh. And it would have been like ","P1-N400891":"completely unknown to me that I was holding anything, any tension, because that’s a pretty supported pose as is.
THERAPIST: Uh huh.
CLIENT: I mean it’s a little; it takes a little work to hold your feet up. It’s supposed to be like a [inaudible – 11:02] pose. But it’s like this uncontrollable like sigh throughout my body. Some people don’t like it. And other people who don’t like to be touched ","P1-N4008D1":"by strangers. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: I feel like I’ve been invited.
CLIENT: To the retreat? Yeah. That’s nice. That’s really different from some other times when it feels like I’m closing you out. Like there isn’t any room for you. [Pause.] Do you know what I mean? [Pause.]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I said I [inaudible – 14:35].
CLIENT: It’s like there’s a way I could talk to you about something that is inviting or is not inviting.
THERAPIST: Uh huh. Yeah. Sounds like, Jay, come to me [inaudible – 14:48].
CLIENT: [inaudible – 14:53]. Well, I had the impression that you think that you wouldn’t like to live in Los Angeles. I don’t know why I had that impression. [inaudible – 15:12].
THERAPIST: I’m not going to answer.
CLIENT: Why not?
THERAPIST: Because I think it would take away from whatever your fantasy about me is at the moment to get in to the realities of [inaudible – 15:58].
CLIENT: Okay. This impression comes from like things in passing that you’ve said over time. [Pause.] Which I’m not interested in getting in to either. So I’m inviting you, but it’s not clear to me that like you have a love affair with Los Angeles that I do and that maybe is part ","P1-N400A91":"of what’s like filling this with sort of wonder and words. But there is also a lot of [inaudible – 17:03] with my family. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: I’m struck that like as I’m sort of there with you wanting me to be there. Otherwise, when I like said pick up on that feeling of your inviting me and it is what you’re feeling that you, then, imagine like how I might not really be there.
CLIENT: Yeah, it’s sort of like it’s hard to just like rest in confidence that you, that I want you to be there and that you, that it’s entirely positive for you. [Pause.] I think fear and doubt come up real fast. I think – I guess I will talk about it – like I have the ","P1-N400AD1":"impression that you want and need a lot of space and wouldn’t like the figurative not to be two inches apart. And that my, like my adventuring in Los Angeles is kind of like getting things in that I can’t really get in here because there’s so much space here.
THERAPIST: Here in Waltham, or here?
CLIENT: Here in this room. But then like, I mean it goes, it all goes together. There’s more space in Waltham. It’s quieter. People’s mats are further apart. So it’s like I’m describing this like thing that really happened, but it’s also a fantasy of like how we might ","P1-N400B31":"be together, like if there wasn’t so much goddamn space.
THERAPIST: Oh, that’s good.
CLIENT: Really happy to be around. And he had this cool German lesbian Catholic School lawyer [inaudible – 24:59] named Kayley who’s studying, I think, some biology and gender [inaudible – 25:11].
THERAPIST: He sounds [inaudible – 30:02] pretty child-like. In a sort of delicate way.
CLIENT: He was.
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: And he’s not in any other. I mean he kind of is like when we come home and he hugs us, but he’s totally got this like really really hard…I mean he’s always been very curious and very gentle. But he’s always had this very grown up way about him even when he was young. ","P1-N400DD1":"Like you, like here I am. I raised my kids by myself. It’s been a lonely enough life, that kind of thing. But no, this is completely different. This feels like he’s discovered a new color or something in his like crayon box and it’s like the best color. It’s more than that. It’s ","P1-N400DD2":"like he’s discovered a crayon box. I mean he’s talking as if, like his perspective on his suffering is changing and he hasn’t even, he doesn’t like have a practice, really yet. But just a few sittings he’s done have felt so spacious or something to him. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: That’s great.
CLIENT: My fantasy about how this…I have this fantasy about telling you about this fantasy. It’s not really coming. I think one of the ways in which I am processing this and like how deeply it feels; like I’ve dived in to this and how deeply it feels I’ve dived into meditation ","P1-N400E71":"practice and like Buttes philosophy. And also like a little bit, the work that I do on the patient periodically [inaudible – 34:47]. There’s like some fantasy that like keeps emerging. It’s like floating around. It’s like; no I’m not a professor in my fantasy life. I am ","P1-N400E72":"some kind of like holistic like progressive, maybe like, my [inaudible – 35:10] are like bonus oriented therapists who like maybe has a private practice or maybe like figures out some way to like reach students in some way that feels right and works and really helps people.
THERAPIST: I think there is one aspect of that and I think this may relate to what you’re uncomfortable telling me where that…I think like a merger fantasy with me or fantasy about me, I mean.
CLIENT: Yeah, I don’t know if it’s a merger, if the whole thing is a merger fantasy with you or if it’s like also a merger fantasy with…I don’t know. Like it’s; it’s almost simpler to like think about how it relates to how I relate to you compared to like what’s ","P1-N400F11":"with all the like, why is meditation taking up so much space? And like is there someone there? Is there a merger fantasy with like Sammie or Lincoln? Or is there like a merger fantasy with myself when I meditate? Or maybe that’s all part of like a way to feel close to you? Like maybe I just see ","P1-N400F12":"my practice as like another way of being with you. [Pause.]
THERAPIST: I guess it seems, to me, an important aspect of it and that, but I, I don’t have in my mind like the only thing. Actually, probably more complicated, at least in my mind in that there’s probably something that’s both the same and not the same about the merger fantasy with ","P1-N400F31":"me and with the teachers at the Meditation Center, and with you. I mean there are ways that does it. But I think there are probably ways that are not. That sort of merger and feeling, like feeling very close. [Pause.]
CLIENT: There’s definitely an element of like when the fantasy makes it, makes it different and more bearable.
THERAPIST: I see. I think there’s probably something important in your being a little worried about telling me.
CLIENT: Well, I share this fantasy with my mom in [inaudible – 41:02]. I think my dad was helping my grandfather at the time. And there is like so much like humor and resistance and like they just didn’t buy it. And there’s very little talk of that he’s like this and my family, ","P1-N400FB1":"and I knew that I thought that it was kind of like a different kind of way of talking.
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: I don’t need an answer today.
THERAPIST: We should stop. Let me think about how to answer that. My immediate inclination is to say no, it absolutely does not take a unique person, but I don’t think that’s a good answer to your question.
CLIENT: I think you’re wrong. Um…
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I want to finish this story which is really quick, that the last part of it, discretion was like you can do this, you can have this component of your life in a very strong and real way as, say, a professor could – because I was sort of comparing it to a professor kind of thing. And then ","P1-N401111":"mom was like, mom is very practical. And I was like, “Mom, don’t you like,” I was like, “It’s a fantasy that really, has a really important role to just like flush this out and think about it sort of be creative about it in my head.” And she was sort of like, “Eh.” ","P1-N401112":"Mom’s pretty practical. I was like don’t you ever have fantasies about spending your time differently? Like anything. And she was silent for a while and she said, “I’m sure I do, but I don’t know what they are.”
THERAPIST: Hmm.
CLIENT: I was not pleased. I told Jeremy about it and he was like, “Oh good.” I’m not really allowed to make fun of you way back then, that’s why I didn’t do it. Like, come on people.
THERAPIST: I don’t think the making fun of what is what you minded. I think it was more like don’t think that way reminded me of like, you ever see the New Yorker cartoon. It’s like two people talking; one on side of the other and there are all these words that like make up this one ","P1-N401171":"big word which is “No.” [Laughs.] And it means like…
CLIENT: Yeah. I don’t think I’ve seen it. I can picture it. [Pause.]