TITLE: Client "S", Session November 27, 2012: Client has been drinking a lot since her break-up. She worries about her ability to control the drinking since she watched her mother suffer with alcoholism her whole childhood.
DESCRIPTION: Client has been drinking a lot since her break-up. She worries about her ability to control the drinking since she watched her mother suffer with alcoholism her whole childhood.
CLIENT: Hi! So, I missed you last (pause) Monday before Thanksgiving?
THERAPIST: Yeah, that sounds right. We took...I think last week was...
CLIENT: It was Monday, or Tuesday, whatever. So I had Thanksgiving and (pause)...I feel like I've been on a bender the last two or three weeks. I'm like drinking and going out a lot and stuff and then friends were home for the long weekend so Wednesday night I decided to go out with friends to the Wednesday ","P1-N4000F1":"night bar thing that I never do because they were like, "Oh, we're going." (inaudible) And I guess...what happened? So I think I had a glass of wine maybe at my house. What the hell happened? (pause) I'm like combining the whole two weeks. Everything is blurry. (pause) I don't know, I guess I had a ","P1-N4000F2":"glass of wine at my house then I went over...oh no, maybe I had a vodka drink at my house. Then I went over to Stephanie's and I had a drink there with them before we left. Then we went out and I apparently chugged another Grey Goose drink, then I had a glass of champagne then I had another Grey Goose? ","P1-N4000F3":"I don't know, whatever. It was too much, too fast, I didn't eat enough and so they were like...and I was just angry, just like angry...drunk and angry. [00:01:39]
THERAPIST: Oh no!
CLIENT: I was like vacuuming too vigorously and sliced my hand open on my bed and I was like, "Wow that's perfect." (chuckle) Yeah. So that's annoying and now it hurts. I mean, it's a sign that it's healing, but go figure. (sigh) Then to top everything off... [00:05:53]
THERAPIST: Have you done that before?
CLIENT: What, hurt myself while cleaning? Yeah. Why? (pause) Well not, yeah, but I think I was more intensely throwing my emotions into making sure I vacuumed all the way under the bed or something, you know? I cleaned, right? I cleaned and then I showered and I started to have a drink and there was ","P1-N4001F1":"a sugar-free Red Bull in my fridge from when my friends had come over the weekend before and pre-gamed at my house or whatever and this crappy vodka was there. So I used the Red Bull. I was like, "Eh." I drink coffee at night so it's no big deal. And I don't drink Red Bull so I don't really know. I ","P1-N4001F2":"used some Red Bull and I used a little vodka, like not even that much, and I made some like super alcoholic drink. And all of a sudden I'm half way through the drink and I'm sitting in the living room and I'm like, "God! My face is really hot. I'm hot!" And I get up and look in the mirror and I'm all ","P1-N4001F3":"red and blotchy. (pause) Like an allergic reaction to something I was drinking, I don't know. Because I'll get a little red sometimes when I drink but I was like blotchy in my whole face. It was like a little (inaudible) you know? Like more hide (ph) like. So I dumped the drink down the sink and I went ","P1-N4001F4":"to sleep and it was gone in the morning but it kind of freaked me out. So I was like have I been drinking too much and this is my body being like, "Stop already!" Or maybe it was just an anomaly or maybe the Red Bull was no good. I don't drink Red Bull. I don't know. [00:07:29]
THERAPIST: It's your kind of post break-up here. You're having a hard time containing your grief.
CLIENT: Yeah, exactly. I literally...towards the end of the day today I just all of a sudden was on the verge of tears and not able to do anything. I want to go smoke a cigarette. I just want to go home and climb in my bed. And I have so much schoolwork for this fucking class that was in retrospect ","P1-N4002F1":"really ambitious for me to take on a class this semester with everything going on (crying) but I guess I just thought it would be a good distraction and stuff. But it's proving really difficult. I'm behind in the class. There's an essay due on Thursday that I got an extension for with no penalty because ","P1-N4002F2":"I asked her and that's fine but there's so much reading and (pause) I don't want to withdraw because I've already put the work in and I may as well try to get a medium okay grade. And I'm sure I'll do well it just feels like a lot of pressure at the same time dealing with all this emotional stuff (pause) ","P1-N4002F3":"and I think I made the decision that next semester I'm going to take a break and I'm not going to take a class just because I think that I need that. But in the meantime I feel a lot of pressure about this class. And then I put pressure on myself about working out and I think I just started feeling ","P1-N4002F4":"really overwhelmed about that. [00:13:41]
THERAPIST: I wonder how much you feel sort of under pressure and overwhelmed from being so sad from missing Franklin (sp), from missing being comforted and kind of taken care of in the way he took care of you, from being lonely more often.
CLIENT: Yeah. It is overwhelming. (pause) And I thought it would feel good to put some pressure on myself to be working out again and I am. I'm going to see my friend, my personal trainer, and she's going to come over tomorrow and give me a little workout and that will be good. [00:14:25]
THERAPIST: Are those all things to do with anxiety?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Like, the schoolwork makes you feel more anxious, the (inaudible) smoking both cigarettes and weed kind of settle you down?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So it's something about (pause) I guess having trouble (pause) managing being anxious.
CLIENT: Yeah, which I always have a difficulty managing being anxious but I just feel like it's double what it usually is typical. [00:15:50]
THERAPIST: Right. I guess it's not obvious to me what's making you more anxious now. I mean it's pretty clear with thinking you feel more sad and alone and taken care of. That's kind of obvious I guess but at least to me, not the anxiety. I mean, it's clearly there. I can imagine some things it might ","P1-N400431":"be but I don't get what it is.
CLIENT: Why I'm anxious?
THERAPIST: Why you're feeling more anxious, yeah.
CLIENT: (pause) I don't know. I think...like the whole thing makes me anxious. I guess it's the being alone thing and having to be out there meeting people and having to be like if I really want to be out there and meeting people and being social then I have to put in the effort every weekend to get ","P1-N400491":"ready both nights or whatever, at least one night and go out and spend money and have drinks. Then I worry about getting too drunk because maybe I'll drink too many drinks if I get too nervous or whatever. (pause) And that's anxiety provoking. [00:17:02]
THERAPIST: Do you feel sad because in a way you're further off from being pregnant?
CLIENT: Yeah, of course that too. But that's when I see any pregnant person. And also another component about it was thinking about Franklin (sp) hearing about it and maybe thinking about me or whatever, which I don't know if he did or didn't but I can imagine that he might of in some way because I've ","P1-N4005F1":"been there for all the other babies. Like really actually all the other babies, which is weird. (pause) Right. (pause) I don't know. I just feel really fragile.
THERAPIST: I mean, you guys were together...I keep forgetting.
CLIENT: Three and a half years.
THERAPIST: Three years?
CLIENT: This would have been our fourth.
THERAPIST: And you lived together almost all that time. And it's only been three weeks? Four weeks?
CLIENT: Three weeks today. (pause) I don't know, I just...
THERAPIST: In certain ways it's been longer because you stopped living together.
CLIENT: Right, yeah but this is the first time I haven't talked to him or seen him in three years. (crying) (pause) And I think my friend Stephanie is right because when I was telling her how I wanted to do all this stuff and quit all this stuff and be better this week she was like, "Honestly Trina..." ","P1-N4006F1":"Like, I'm grieving. I'm not...it's nice when I make it through the day without crying and I'm patting myself on the shoulder for that. And so she's kind of right. (pause) I just don't want to be stuck in a hole and that's what I feel like I've been doing. I've been at my house in my bedroom and that's ","P1-N4006F2":"it, or like out getting drunk. And I just don't want...when is it supposed to stop? [00:23:40]
THERAPIST: After more than three weeks I think. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: I imagine you want (pause)...I don't know. I guess in a way (pause) it sucks and you just want to be done with it and of course you do because who would want to feel the way that you're feeling right now? But I don't think it's because after three weeks you just completely stop and are able ","P1-N400751":"to get over this, do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: It just usually takes quite a bit longer than that unfortunately.
CLIENT: And I think also something that I considered was I was going to do all this stuff for me this week and all of whatever but then it's like oh right, for eight hours a day I have to plaster a smile on my face and be professional and put literally all of my working energy towards not being a fuck ","P1-N4007B1":"up at work, essentially. Especially this week with this new conference going on, it's a lot to ask of myself to be like okay, and then I'm going to go home and just eat a salad and then I'm going to read for two and half or three hours...
THERAPIST: "I'm going to work out, eat my salad, and then do my school work." [00:25:10]
CLIENT: Right, when really I just want to go home and sit on the couch.
THERAPIST: Right, and probably cry.
CLIENT: Yeah! Or just like watch something that will make me cry or just anything.
THERAPIST: To distract you.
CLIENT: Right. I mean reading last night...I read for the first time in three weeks. Well no, I read when I was in Florida for a little bit and that was good but I read for the first time when I was at home in three or four weeks and I literally could not stop my mind from wandering. I even took Ritalin, ","P1-N400871":"like two five milligrams and waited an hour and still it just wasn't working. I just wasn't able to concentrate on stuff. (pause) But then it's like okay, if I do still want to not withdraw from this class which I have until the 30th but it would kind of be like a waste of work and time, like a ","P1-N400872":"semester (sigh) if I don't do any of my work this week...I asked for an extension with no penalty to the grade, it's already going to be a worse grade because I haven't even started it, you know? (pause) So then what, I then have to spend my whole weekend doing the work? I don't know how to balance ","P1-N400873":"anything and catch up on 600 pages of reading. [00:26:28]
THERAPIST: When is the paper due?
CLIENT: She gave me an extension until Monday or Tuesday.
THERAPIST: Can you take Monday off work?
CLIENT: No. I can't take any days off work until after the 14th unfortunately. (pause) I don't know. I don't know what to do, because I could go home and read later and not absorb it and highlight random stuff. I don't know how official that is either way.
THERAPIST: It sounds like, at least this week, it's just too much.
CLIENT: It is too much but it's been too much. Why is it three weeks? I know you say it's not a lot but it's annoying to me.
THERAPIST: Of course it is!
CLIENT: I wish I hadn't taken this course this semester. (pause) But I don't want to withdraw because [if I did take the course then it's like now I didn't take the course] (ph) but like I did and I'm almost at the end and it's a good credit towards my degree and especially if I'm going to take next ","P1-N400971":"semester off I'd rather just power through it but (pause) I can't do that without doing the readings because I'll fail the exam and I... (pause)...I don't know. [00:27:50]
THERAPIST: Sure. [00:28:48]
CLIENT: And it's like tomorrow I won't be home until 9:30 or 9:45. Then I have to be at work by 7:00 am, like literally late is 7:00 am on Thursday. Then I'm going to go to class on Thursday after the conference ends at 5:00. Then I have to be back at 7:30 on Friday and then I'm done in the afternoon ","P1-N400A11":"or whatever. It's just like...okay so literally tonight's the only night that I would have to do school work unless I really just want to have no sleep this whole week, which I really think would be a bad call especially with the way I am feeling emotionally. And then Friday after the conference, even ","P1-N400A12":"though it ends in the afternoon and I can go home, I don't want to go home and do homework. I want to go home and take a nap from working so hard the last two days. (pause) I don't know. (pause) But then if I do get a shitty grade it will bring back down my GPA and I'd rather have one less credit than ","P1-N400A13":"to have a B or C. (sigh) [00:30:13]
THERAPIST: [You can't take incomplete] (ph) (inaudible) how that works.
CLIENT: No it's like a withdraw. I guess you get two withdraws without it affecting your GPA and then the third one or more is a zero. (pause) And I've already gotten two A's on my papers.
THERAPIST: Yeah you just broke up with a guy you thought you were going to spend the rest of your life with.
CLIENT: Yeah, I know.
THERAPIST: I'm not trying to tell you what to do I'm just saying I think it's perfectly reasonable if you decide to withdraw.
CLIENT: Yeah. I just...I always do this to myself too. Instead of just thinking about what I should do to resolve whatever issue I'm talking about I'm like, "Oh, I just shouldn't have taken the class to begin with." And that's what I'm concentrating on. [00:31:16]
THERAPIST: Are you focusing on ways you feel irresponsible because it makes you feel more in control than your feelings do?
CLIENT: Right, exactly.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Yeah, very typical. I'm doing it now.
THERAPIST: (inaudible) situation. Sorry, I don't mean to make too much light of that but...
CLIENT: No, I know. (pause) And then I got really irritated at my supervisor. And maybe it was (inaudible), maybe she didn't mean it like this, but I got a text from her...she left and then I left five minutes later and it was ten minutes early from work or something. And then I get a text at 4:52, ","P1-N400B91":""Trina, I just came back to your office but got no response. Please let me know if you are all set for tomorrow or need any help. Thanks." Like no friendly (pause) whatever. And so maybe she was just writing quick and didn't mean anything by it but it made me feel like she was needing to point out that ","P1-N400B92":"I left early, you know? [00:32:27]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: So, and I mean...all I wrote was, "Sorry (inaudible) a few early for an appointment. Tomorrow is all set. It starts at 6 so plenty of time (inaudible). Thanks so much." Like whatever and she didn't reply again. And like yeah fine, I could have told her but she left and I was like nah, I'm going ","P1-N400BD1":"to leave. But it annoys me because if she was trying to be like, "Okay I'm pointing out that I know you left early after I left and blah blah blah," give me a fucking break. She knows what's going on. And sometimes I almost feel like...okay she went through this a couple years ago and she had her heartbroken, ","P1-N400BD2":"this guy walked out on her, whatever. And I think that almost sometimes she feels like I don't get as much time to (pause) be emotional or whatever because I'm the one that broke up with him. Like she's not...
THERAPIST: Right, yeah. You did the breaking up. You're not allowed to be as devastated. [00:33:31]
CLIENT: Right and if she got back to working and was normal in two weeks and she was the one that cracked (ph) up then Trina get on, you know. And also I think that there is some inherent resentment at the fact that she's 37 and single and blah, right? But it really upset me. Like, really? Give me a ","P1-N400C11":"break! I'm really doing the best I can here. I am doing a really good job and the guy that I'm working on the conference with actually used to be my supervisor, Theodore, he is really annoying to work with on events. Like really, really the most annoying person ever to work with on events but he's been ","P1-N400C12":"really sweet about this whole situation and took a moment to close this...I hate him because we were meeting about something and we had to [continue talking about it] (ph) 4:30 and I was like, "Do you want to finish this or do you want to do it tomorrow?" And he was like, "Let's just do it tomorrow." ","P1-N400C13":"And I was like, "Yeah I'm feeling a little burnt out." And this when I was starting to feel a little shitty already and he was like, "Let's just (inaudible). I just wanted to take a second to thank you and congratulate you on how well you've been doing and how much you've been doing. I know that it's ","P1-N400C14":"really hard in the face of everything you're dealing with to have to come in and deal with this." So that was really very nice. And so I think he knows and that's good and I'm glad that he's being understanding and stuff. [00:34:47]
THERAPIST: So (pause) I've been smiling because I think what you're doing with your scarf is a little reflective of some of how you've been feeling.
CLIENT: Really?
THERAPIST: Yeah, I think you're struggling with feeling wound up in that I don't just think that because of your scarf, obviously. So yeah I think the sadness and the hurt and heartbreak make you feel kind of out of control and I think on one hand that makes you anxious and things that make you feel ","P1-N400C91":"further wound up like school work, it makes them feel even more burdensome. And on the other hand I think you sort of find outlets, especially drinking, that (pause) help you to be unwound or let loose or things that kind of calm you down and manage that anxiety. But I think that anxiety is probably ","P1-N400C92":"a lot about having such strong or even like overwhelming feelings of sadness and loneliness that make you feel kind of out of control and like you're really not together. On one side I think you're wound a little tight around that and on the other I think you are probably sort of...you need some relief ","P1-N400C93":"from that which the drinking helps you to get. (pause) It helps you to feel sort of probably, like less bottled up in a way although in I think a way you don't usually feel so great about after all. That's what I think you're giving yourself a super hard time about. [00:37:07]
CLIENT: No, I mean I had my little bender and I'm reeling it in. I mean for me the saying...I think the going out, the drinking is probably why I'm not as nervous and not feeling annoyed at how ugly everybody is and whatever. Obviously everybody's not ugly but that's how I've been feeling lately. "You're ","P1-N400CB1":"all ugly."
THERAPIST: Oh, like...
CLIENT: Like all of the men, "Get out of my face. You're ugly, you smell, you're fat, you're a loser, you make t-shirts for a living? Don't talk to me." Like that's literally how I've been feeling. Then I feel a little less bad if I'm drinking, I know.
THERAPIST: Why do you feel so critical? Maybe they are just simply losers, unattractive losers, but it sounds like you feel kind of critical of them.
CLIENT: Well I think that Franklin (sp) was really attractive and had a...
THERAPIST: He was a very attractive guy?
CLIENT: Very attractive guy, really nice body even when he's not working out and so I have this kind of...anybody else...
THERAPIST: By comparison everybody else is a bowl of Jell-O. [00:38:14]
CLIENT: Right, I mean it's not true.
THERAPIST: Of course it's not true.
CLIENT: Or like everybody's a douchebag. I'm like, "Oh you're a douchebag." And that's what I feel about all the guys. I don't know, like just don't talk to me. Like that's how I've been feeling. It's just...he would literally have to be like, "Calm down." (inaudible)
THERAPIST: Do they seem douchy because they don't measure up in other ways as well as how they look?
CLIENT: No. They're probably are better than him. They're probably like a plastic surgeon for all I know, but I don't like their face or their sweater or their haircut or the fact that their hair is blonde.
THERAPIST: I see, like you find reasons. Okay.
CLIENT: And like I'm not...
THERAPIST: Yeah because the physique thing sounds like it's genuinely how he is but it sounds like this other thing is a little different. It's kind of you doing a little more (inaudible) yourself.
CLIENT: Yeah for sure. I think also I've never really dated white guys that much. I just don't know why. I just really haven't. I don't know. It's nothing like...I'm sure they're attractive. I'm sure I'm attracted to some but like a lot of the parties I go to the majority are waspy kind of and that ","P1-N400EB1":"makes me even more like, "I hate all of you." (chuckle) [00:39:24]
THERAPIST: Do you know what is unappealing about the whiteness of them?
CLIENT: No. I just...I don't know because I went to a bar where it was very diverse but all the Hispanic men were short and all the black men were fat and bald so I think it's just what I'm seeing right now. I'm not attracted to anybody right now. I'm not feeling at a place where I'm positive about ","P1-N400EF1":"(pause) the single world. I mean the drinking yeah, I do feel good...I feel very good about the fact that I'm...really I'm not having anxiety about not drinking this week. Like it's a challenge but it's not even like, "Oh I really want to buy a bottle of wine." It's more like, "Oh I really want another ","P1-N400EF2":"cigarette or more weed." That's more my issue which, thankfully, in the grand scheme of things, aren't as detrimental like developing a serious drinking problem, so there's that. [00:40:36]
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: And also I think the house is difficult for me. It just annoys me. It's big. It's dirty and Mindy sucks at cleaning and I can't really yell at her because I suck at cleaning. It's just big and it's old and it's dirty and you lived there, you know. I'm over it but I really can't move (pause) ","P1-N400F71":"but I think that's why I've been spending more time in the room which is more something I've made my own now that we're not together anymore. But then I just hang out in my room. (chuckle) It's like my cave. Like literally probably all day Saturday and all day Sunday I just lived (inaudible) in my bedroom ","P1-N400F72":"with my cat, like straight the whole day, just eating the whole day. Like I'm really lucky I haven't gained weight. The eating thing I'm not even anxious about this week either. I don't know. I don't know what I'm anxious about work, school, having a really difficult week like this and no longer having ","P1-N400F73":"somebody to go home and talk to about it.
THERAPIST: (inaudible)
CLIENT: Even if he said the wrong thing it was just better [he know it] (ph).
THERAPIST: We've got to stop for now.
CLIENT: (sigh) Okay. So I guess you just want to keep our regular Friday appointment next week?
THERAPIST: What would you like to do?
CLIENT: I mean, if you have anything else earlier in the week that would be great.
THERAPIST: Yeah I'll see what I can do. [00:43:38]