TITLE: Client "R", Session March 31, 2014: Client discusses purchasing a new keyboard named 'Peg' to deal with feelings of being settled and unsettled.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses purchasing a new keyboard named 'Peg' to deal with feelings of being settled and unsettled.
CLIENT: Do you think they were friends?
THERAPIST: Definitely.
CLIENT: Me, too. (long pause) They spent a lot of time together. [00:01:00] (long pause) How are you?
THERAPIST: I’m fine, thank you.
CLIENT: You’re welcome. (long pause) [00:03:30] It’s really pretty hard for me to be away from you. (pause) [00:03:59] I don’t know what I struggle more with – being away from you or the struggle. (long pause) [00:07:10] (inaudible at 00:07:10), in case you were wondering. (long ","P1-N400131":"pause) [00:12:41] I have a new friend. Her name is Peg and she is a keyboard. Our latest domestic argument in the last month or so has been do we get a real piano or do we get a full-sized digital keyboard. It took about a month for Jeremy to convince me that I didn’t want a real piano, which ","P1-N400132":"was surprising. And it took about a month for me to get him to agree that we would look for the next place with getting a real piano at the front and top of the list – or like it would be up there. [00:14:21]
THERAPIST: Sounds great. I think Peg is a lovely addition to your household.
CLIENT: Yeah, she’s a great friend. We were discussing whether she’s our baby; and she’s not at all. She’s a companion. I’m not used to naming things, but Jeremy’s family names stuff, so we’re trying. [00:18:56] Peg is a really natural name because of the keyboard ","P1-N4001B1":"and the stand and the speakers and the speaker stand and cables, the most exciting thing of that for me was the Steely Dan complete repertoire book. Do you know who Steely Dan is? You should check them out. I’ve been wanting to play their music for a while, but it’s very moving. It will ","P1-N4001B2":"be [good to have a book.] (ph?) My favorite song of theirs is (inaudible at 00:19:56). (pause) I guess I thought for a second that maybe you don’t want me to have a transition absorber.
THERAPIST: Humph.
CLIENT: I thought of that while I was telling you that. Maybe that’s the hard-hearted Jay persona that I was responding to. [00:21:00]
THERAPIST: I see. Like you should sit in a bare room and feel the transitions?
CLIENT: Yep. Yep. (pause) I went to that piano like 12 times in the 24 hours that we had her. There is really nothing else. I don’t think there is one antidote to anxiety, but music comes pretty close for me. [00:22:07] Somehow, just noodling around with the piano feels the best so far because ","P1-N400231":"that’s a lot of time.
THERAPIST: That’s a lot of time.
CLIENT: A lot of time to talk to someone or pick some recorded music to play or to sit or do anything. And it’s a lot of time to feel a transition. I think most of the times I did feel a transition, but not all of them. [00:23:04]
THERAPIST: It was a really nice thing for Peg. She was there every damned time.
CLIENT: She was. She’s so inviting and she’s like a portal. She just assumes whatever vessel that I need her to every time. It’s different every time.
THERAPIST: No you’re not playing this song this time, Allison. I don’t want you to play it. I want you to play this other song.
CLIENT: (laughs) Yep. (pause) I think it’s why my mom sounded so happy. I think she may be the one who really gets it, like how important our piano was for me when I was growing up. (pause) I had the thought that maybe you were thinking she really gets it because she was acutely aware of how much ","P1-N4002F1":"I wasn’t with her or wasn’t coming to her at all of those times. (pause) [00:25:03]
THERAPIST: I guess, again, it’s sort of me apparently looking a little bit at the more negative side or painful side, I think. (pause)
CLIENT: There is something very rhythmic and chant-like about the times when I play in response or as a way to receive difficult emotions. [00:26:10] I can really just play two notes (inaudible at 00:26:14). I did it for half an hour last night. Or I start with two notes and then just sort of see where ","P1-N400331":"it goes, but then go back to the two notes. It’s soothing or something and it’s also – I don’t know – it’s like steadying. (long pause) [00:27:58] I wonder if you feel outside or inside of this. (long pause) [00:30:38] You seem unsettled.
THERAPIST: Hmm. (long pause) [00:31:30]
CLIENT: I feel unsettled.
THERAPIST: You feel unsettled?
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: I see. (pause)
CLIENT: Sometimes you seem unsettled when I feel (inaudible at 00:31:45).
THERAPIST: I seem unsettled as you also feel unsettled? (pause) [00:32:12]
CLIENT: I revisited some older relationships with music teachers this weekend and realized how transferrential or like how they are really little baby transferrentials. We had so much in common with it and with each other.
THERAPIST: My sense is that you’re maybe unsettled and I am apparently unsettled by your bringing Peg into things. [00:33:17] I think my sense is that you feel like, in a way, it puts something a little in between us and it’s something that, among other things, helps you when I am not there ","P1-N400451":"and is really nice and that, at the same time, it feels like a bit of distance or difference between you and me and that that raises the question of whether we can be as close or this can be the same and how is that going to affect me and I’m probably unsettled. [00:34:20]
CLIENT: I don’t know why because I’m not pretending to know why you’re unsettled. I don’t think it’s because you’re worried that Peg is coming between us. (chuckling)
THERAPIST: No. I’m saying I think you feel like I am more immune the same way like with your mother. You imagined I was thinking that she was acutely aware of how you were going to the piano and not to her. You are imagining that I am acutely aware of you are going to the piano and not to me and ","P1-N400491":"that you imagined that I’m unsettled by that. [00:35:07] (pause)
CLIENT: Maybe. I think you’re right about all the other stuff.
THERAPIST: We have about five minutes.
CLIENT: I don’t have any ideas that feel at the surface about why you’re unsettled. Yes, I feel that by bringing something else into the pain when I’m not here, it makes it less about you and more about me – and I don’t like that, I guess. [00:36:04] (pause) Like it means ","P1-N4004F1":"that, at least in those times, there is something else that can carry me that isn’t you; and so it’s like inferior or it’s not as distancing.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: Also, maybe I’m afraid that you will think that it’s okay now. [00:37:00]
THERAPIST: Allison’s got Peg. It’s okay. Peg is taking care of her.
CLIENT: Yeah, like maybe you won’t wonder as much or worry as much, which is very, very bad.
THERAPIST: Sure. (long pause)
CLIENT: I think that’s probably what made it hard to either talk about how hard it was or talk about Peg, like I started to talk about how hard it was, and then I could only do one or the other. [00:38:09]
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: At least in that moment, it felt like that . I think I did talk a little about how hard it was by talking about Peg.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: I’ll see you on Wednesday?
THERAPIST: Yes.