TITLE: Client "R", Session March 24, 2014: Client discusses finding the perfect therapist for their spouse.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses finding the perfect therapist for their spouse.
CLIENT: I mind that our sessions are as short as they are.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: That’s kind of a hard question to answer. I don’t think you need to worry about it. I think it’s okay.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: Does it make sense?
THERAPIST: Yes. I think it’s complicated, but it makes sense.
CLIENT: It’s disappointing, but it’s disappointing anyway.
THERAPIST: Right. Like the endpoint sucks whether it’s five minutes earlier or later.
CLIENT: That’s right. (pause) [00:01:14] I get to see you four times this week. (pause) Thanks for the receipt.
THERAPIST: Sure. (pause) [00:01:59] I hope everything works out with it. (pause)
CLIENT: We’ll see. (long pause) [00:03:18] I was stressed about Sirius Moby because he seems really special. He seems really good and you recommended him highly. Jeremy does not want to see another old woman, so Riley Carver is out. [00:03:57] Maybe if Sirius Moby goes away from the list, then ","P1-N4001F1":"Riley Carver can get her spot back, but Jeremy does not want to see another old woman, he said. If Jeremy were the kind of person to travel to Medford without a car – we don’t have a car.
THERAPIST: Oh. I figured he drove up to Marlborough.
CLIENT: He gets a ride. So if he were the person to make that big of a commitment to a therapist, I think some of the stuff that will come up in therapy won’t come up. [00:05:04] I think he wouldn’t need the type of help that I think he needs if he were to go and see Sirius Moby in the first ","P1-N400231":"place. Do you know what I mean? So that initiative that that required is different from what Jeremy does.
THERAPIST: It’s kind of like you don’t think he’ll make it over there.
CLIENT: I don’t, but he is intrigued, so it feels like he’s stuck because Fern Tom’s office is like one block from our house. (both laugh) So it’s stressful for me. [00:06:04]
THERAPIST: I’m laughing because there is enough room for an entire neurosis right there.
CLIENT: What? Having her right there?
THERAPIST: The therapist who is accessible but who I probably didn’t fuss as much about or who is not quite as exalted, in some sense.
CLIENT: This is totally why it’s stressful.
THERAPIST: Exalted, but who is nearly unreachable.
CLIENT: Yes. So it’s stressing me out because she’s so accessible, but I didn’t hear much about her and I want to please you or something. Also I’m curious about Sirius. I want somebody to see him. I kind of want to see him. (pause) He makes children’s’ games. That’s ","P1-N400331":"cool. [00:07:02] And he also talks about music in his profile – which very few people seem to have, but he has one – and that intrigued Jeremy. I don’t really think he’s the right person for Jeremy because he’s so hard to get to. It’s one thing to be expensive, but ","P1-N400332":"it’s another thing to list your rates out on your website when your rates are like $450 for a consultation and $300 for a 50-minute session, so that’s a total turnoff for Jeremy. [00:08:03] It would have been for me, but I kind of get it now. I think it’s not a trap for me because ","P1-N400333":"I think my attitude is well, we’ll just get him to charge you less, which (both laugh) is often not how Jeremy works.
THERAPIST: Do you know anybody that works that way? I was just teasing you.
CLIENT: No, I don’t know anybody that works that way.
THERAPIST: That’s what I meant.
CLIENT: It says on his website “reduced fee.” [00:08:57] There is some uninviting word attached to it, like rarely, but I think it said “sometimes” it can be arranged. He will pass, but he hasn’t passed yet. Also, that means that this painful . . . I don’t know what ","P1-N4003B1":"to make of it. I don’t know what to make of drinking a really strong beer and reading all the back issues of the Pine newsletter. (both laugh) (inaudible at 00:09:56) [00:10:01] I don’t know what that is. I think it’s a way to feel close to you and feel like I’m figuring you ","P1-N4003B2":"out more, but it started because if you google Sirius, there is some stuff that comes up in a couple of newsletters. It’s like candy, like I can’t stop reading them; so half the time I’m really confused because I think this should be my career. I meant being an analyst, but then sometimes ","P1-N4003B3":"being a patient should be in your career, too. [00:11:00] Sometimes it just seems completely tied up with you and that it’s going to go away and I shouldn’t pay too much attention to it because that’s a big choice, a big decision. (pause) That’s what’s going on with him ","P1-N4003B4":"and it. [00:11:51] (long pause) It seems a little much. He works out of his house, which keeps coming up, probably because I’ve had so many dreams about your house. Yeah, some of the house things sticking. [00:13:04] (pause)
THERAPIST: I sense that he feels to you like my people.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Which is something significant about me.
CLIENT: Yes. I guess I want to know him or want him to know me or I want him to know us, like if he sees Jeremy he’ll know me. [00:14:01] (pause) I guess I have the sense that he really wants to know us and he just doesn’t know it.
THERAPIST: Sirius?
CLIENT: Yes. And not necessarily because of me, but because of how I view Jeremy and his issues and his gifts, I think. I don’t know. I think he would be a rewarding case, a pretty tough nut to crack. It kind of seems like a right match, but it’s not all because of the three things I know ","P1-N400471":"about him. It’s like the aura I’ve made up around him. [00:15:00] (long pause) [00:17:50] Part of it feels like a simple matter of traction. It makes me feel like I have traction here. I think about him and I project things onto him.
THERAPIST: It feels a little like you would be moving into my house.
CLIENT: Yeah, or something. Or like something that you would covet. It has a little bit of a feeling like that, like you would be interested in what it was like.
THERAPIST: Like I would want to know about how he was with Jeremy and what Jeremy thought of him? [00:18:53] (pause) Well let’s hope so. I’m teasing you.
CLIENT: It’s like too much to think about somebody coming into our life who you know and who knows you and who would be a window into something else, something about you. I think it’s too much because it’s not happening. If it were happening, I think it would be . . .
THERAPIST: It might be easier.
CLIENT: Yeah. I wouldn’t have developed all this stuff around it so quickly. [00:20:04] (long pause) [00:22:02] I had a dream last Sunday night that I didn’t tell you about, but it happened at your house. It was your birthday and I had showed up with a lot of people, like we had all come ","P1-N400531":"to see you for your birthday. You seemed stressed about something and you were handwriting me hand-written notes. It seemed like it was happening over the course of many days, but the time wasn’t clear. [00:22:57] (pause) Most of the scene was happening in a little dining room like a round table. ","P1-N400532":"The lights were off. It was daytime. I don’t know who I showed up with, but I showed up with some people, like maybe who were a little younger than me. I remember seeing the notes, but I don’t remember what they said. In the next dream, which was sunlit, your mom was there with a baby girl, ","P1-N400533":"maybe like six or eight months old. [00:24:08] I don’t think she was me, but she had these long, black eyelashes and black hair and she was very, very stunning to look at. She was really peaceful and happy and your mom was taking care of her. She was in a car seat or something. I think it was ","P1-N400534":"a car seat, like she was going somewhere. She was getting her ready to go somewhere and I went in and I saw her and I commented on her eyelashes and you said, “Yeah, that’s her favorite [best] (ph?)” [00:25:00] You acknowledged my eyelash comment. You said, “That’s her ","P1-N400535":"favorite best.” (long pause) [00:27:28]
THERAPIST: I guess the stuff about Sirius Moby is pretty overwhelming.
CLIENT: It’s pretty funny. (chuckling) I think it’s overwhelming because it brings in so much stuff that’s very unifying, almost. I really want Jeremy to see someone good and am really very entangled with it all. [00:27:59] And if I were able to let him go a little bit, I think it ","P1-N400571":"would be less overwhelming. I guess I’m saying this points to how involved I am or how invested or attached I am to lots of things about that – and lots of things about you. (long pause) [00:29:13]
THERAPIST: I think, as far as the stuff with me, it fits right in with your wanting to be part of my life outside of here which, in a way, is something that could also happen in here.
CLIENT: Like by way of Sirius Moby, by talking about him? [00:30:00]
THERAPIST: I’m sort of correcting myself a little bit. Part of my life outside of my role as your analyst or whatever that sort of knowing someone who feels like my people, that sort of relates us differently in a way you really want.
CLIENT: Yeah, and in a particular way in which we would know him. [00:30:58] It’s not like some other kind of relationship. It would be intimate. (long pause) And sort of privileged, like we would know him in a way that you don’t – or Jeremy would. [00:32:01] (pause) Looking at this ","P1-N4005F1":"differently, I think it would be very annoying for Jeremy if I tried to know him in the ways that I want to, so it’s almost like this silent, implicit thing that I actually wouldn’t have. (pause) [00:33:15] But it’s more than that. It’s like no one else is going to be good enough ","P1-N4005F2":"for Jeremy and we can’t let him go. It’s like he’s right and we’re making a mistake and I wish Jeremy were different so that he could rise to a level of – whatever – that he would need to get to him. [00:34:04] At other times when I think about it, I have no idea. ","P1-N4005F3":"No one has any idea how he would be for Jeremy, how Jeremy would be for him. And does it really matter what the analyst is bringing into the room when you’re comparing different people who are all skilled? Does it matter what they bring into the room together? How am I going to know that? So it ","P1-N4005F4":"doesn’t really fit the longings. [00:35:03] My longings don’t really fit. (long pause) I think a pretty involved fantasy showed up pretty quickly around him. (pause) [00:36:17] There is also this longing for parity between me and Jeremy. Whatever he ends up doing will probably bring him ","P1-N4005F5":"closer to, I think, a parallel relationship with somebody else. Some part of me feels like I really need that. (pause) [00:36:57]
THERAPIST: I think it seems to me that the central thing about this fantasy about Sirius and Jeremy, and I think this is only just a piece of it, but you can be closer to Jeremy because Sirius is maybe the only one or one of a very small number of people who could really help Jeremy deal with his stuff, ","P1-N400611":"which would make him, among other things, more accessible.
CLIENT: Yeah, better; a better partner.
THERAPIST: And I think particularly better, particularly in a way where he would be more available. He wouldn’t be stuck in his own stuff or off someplace or dealing with it or finding something out or whatever. [00:38:06] He would also be closer to me. You would sort of be a fly on the wall in ","P1-N400651":"the sessions and it would teach you more about this kind of treatment from a different perspective and, presumably, about me and where I’m coming from – other things about me based on who Sirius is and what he’s like. Then we would be closer, too; probably closer in a different way.
CLIENT: It’s a very one-dimensional fantasy because Jeremy really wouldn’t tell me much. [00:38:58] I used to be dying to tell him a lot and I would be dying to know, but it’s not like that.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now.
CLIENT: Do you think Fern Toms is [good] (ph?)?
THERAPIST: Yes.
CLIENT: He’s not going anywhere; you can tell he’s really sort of stuck.