TITLE: Client "R", Session March 17, 2014: Client discusses getting a therapist for her husband and asks her therapist for a recommendation. Client discusses her relationship with her therapist and a recent email she sent him.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses getting a therapist for her husband and asks her therapist for a recommendation. Client discusses her relationship with her therapist and a recent email she sent him.
CLIENT: Weird.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles)
CLIENT: (inaudible at 00:00:09) myself.
THERAPIST: I see. No I do really. So, I unfortunately didn’t talk to the guy I was going to talk with on Friday.
CLIENT: Gavin.
THERAPIST: Gavin. Though he (inaudible at 00:00:35) and couldn’t talk, so I sent him an e-mail and (inaudible at 00:00:38) a little bit about Jeremy, including his preferred times. I have somebody else in mind if Gavin doesn’t pan out.
CLIENT: What is Gavin’s last name?
THERAPIST: Harrison (sp?).
CLIENT: He has a website?
THERAPIST: I think. And we can more about that but (inaudible at 00:01:10) for scheduling. So this week I don’t have anything as of now, tomorrow or Wednesday. The following few weeks, at least two or three, I know I will have something late in the day on Wednesday. That’ll be good. (Pause) ","P1-N4001D1":"I’ll look into how many of those I have. [00:02:16]
CLIENT: Thanks. Why did you smile when you brought it up? (Pause)
THERAPIST: Because it made me think of your e-mail.
CLIENT: And? [00:03:16]
THERAPIST: I guess I’m inclined to both make light of and take very seriously at the same time. I don’t mean make light of in a defensive (ph) way but like, “Oh Darren. I had this thing I just remembered, I have to e-mail you about.” But I know it’s also very serious because ","P1-N400251":"I know keeping a contact like that is very important.
CLIENT: Like instead of coming in today and talking about it?
THERAPIST: Yeah. Instead of thinking (ph) about it when we met on Friday or talking about it today or…
CLIENT: No and no. (Laughs) I didn’t know about it when we met on Friday. It came at the end of a long meditation and it was a meditation stopping thought that I then sat through but it completely changed my whole—it felt like it changed my life. [00:04:47]
THERAPIST: The meditation?
CLIENT: The thought. The idea that I should see you more in the short term. Or that I want to. (inaudible at 00:05:14) Like the idea that I want to contact you about it and that’s okay was something that I was able to sit with for about six minutes until I wrote to you. (Chuckles) But it came ","P1-N4002F1":"at the end of this –and I (inaudible at 00:05:43) something like this since Thursday. Saying (ph) a lot. Like a lot a day. Well every day.
THERAPIST: Well, I guess I think a part of what you’re doing is trying to convince both of us that (pause)—I guess I still sort of think a lot of it was there’s a big distance between Friday morning and Monday morning, and you want to reach out. And I think for a few reasons, you don’t ","P1-N400371":"like that. [00:10:27]
CLIENT: That I want to reach out?
THERAPIST: Yeah.
CLIENT: I think I don’t like what my options are. I don’t think I hate so much anymore that I want to reach out. I think it’s pretty sweet (ph). But yeah, I feel pretty trapped with the thought because I feel like I only have certain types of things that I can reach out about that ","P1-N4003D1":"you will reply to one. And certain kinds of replies at all are the ones that I’m going to get from you. So I guess it’s not only about reaching out but it’s about being replied to. [00:11:34]
THERAPIST: I guess—a little concerned that it’s going to sound like I’m chiding you which I’m not intending to do, but when you say like, “This is [nowhere in my life right when we met] (ph) it was only after this -
CLIENT: It wasn’t! (Laughs)
THERAPIST: I’m [not done] (ph). (Laughs)
CLIENT: Kelly hadn’t even written back to me Friday morning. What was on my mind Friday morning was what I [inaudible at 00:12:05] back.
THERAPIST: Which I entirely believe. I was just saying this to think about conscience (ph).
CLIENT: It wasn’t in my mind any more Friday morning than it is every day. Do you agree with that?
THERAPIST: My hypothesis is that it was in your mind and it was unconscious.
CLIENT: Differently from Thursday afternoon or like any other day.
THERAPIST: My hunch is that it came up -
CLIENT: What are we talking about anyway? What was the (inaudible at 00:12:58)? Reaching out? [Really wanted] (ph) to ask you a specific question.
THERAPIST: I think you came up with a very reasonable sounding reason—to reach out when you wanted to reach out. And [how do I say this what I think] (ph). I don’t think it’s (ph) bad. I’m not saying you did something wrong, but I am saying a lot of your explanation is you’re ","P1-N400531":"just, “Well, the reason I realized it then is because of all these other things that were going on. And actually, even I had this one thought that I wanted to do but I had five hundred thoughts that I didn’t feel the need to do anything about it.” [00:13:59]
CLIENT: Which is true.
THERAPIST: I don’t get it. (Pause)
CLIENT: I think…
THERAPIST: I don’t think I’m making my point clearly. I can think about it a little more. Yeah. [00:14:21]
CLIENT: No. You’re making it clear. I’m not hearing it yet. (Pause) [I just haven’t let it go yet] (ph). Arguing with you about it. (Pause) Is that why you think you haven’t made your point clearly?
THERAPIST: No. Okay. So I said, “I think when you wanted to reach out or felt (inaudible at 00:15:24) about the distance over the weekend, you came up with the reasonable sounding reason to reach out.” And then, I think, as we’re talking about it now, you’re explaining—it ","P1-N4005F1":"feels to me as though you are explaining why this was really about having the reasonable sounding reason. [00:15:55]
CLIENT: And in the moment I felt like that too, and like all along and not just like coming up with it now. Maybe you’re right. This is how I’ve explained it to myself in the whole time.
THERAPIST: Yeah, and to me there is a bit of a feel of like trying to convince both of us that this was not mostly about wanting to reach out.
CLIENT: I think it’s slightly different. I think it was mostly about realizing that the next, whenever it is, like two days, the next Monday to Thursday separation and then realizing about how the next separations felt too big and too overwhelming and too bad in the face of everything else that’s ","P1-N400651":"going on. I can’t handle that so I need to do something about it now. [00:17:16]
THERAPIST: I don’t know yet. (Pause) I (inaudible at 00:19:00) you were sort of asking my help for something you felt very anxious about and anticipated in the future.
CLIENT: Yeah, maybe in the present too. Maybe I also didn’t like the idea of the whole weekend. I guess what occurred to me was, “Oh, this would feel much better now it has so many spaces between our session.” So I could do something about that. That’s how it kind of felt in ","P1-N4006D1":"the moment. And that’s how I’ve been explaining it to myself. [00:20:01]
THERAPIST: (Laughs) I was just (ph) watching.
CLIENT: Okay.(Pause) (inaudible at 00:21:13) how you look?
THERAPIST: (Laughs) I would say it’s very clear to me that’s how I look to you.
CLIENT: I think I’m self-conscious. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Yeah, it does seem to me like you’re anxious about discovering you’ve been caught. I’m not saying -
CLIENT: I mean, I’m anxious about discovering something I stole, like don’t quite feel at the service for me. Like I still feel like I want to believe what I told you, but I hear you. [00:22:17]
THERAPIST: I guess I think part of what –I think what’s very scary there is that I’d be making a decision in some way that had no transparency and to which you had no access. I’m not saying that to you. I’m not actually even saying that I think you’re full of shit ","P1-N400831":"but you think I think that. And you think I’m making a decision based on that [and kind of] (ph) remove them from what we can really talk about, which I can imagine very frightening.
CLIENT: Shouldn’t (ph) silence me now. [I know you haven’t] (ph). I noticed that I’m wanting (ph) that now. (Pause) And [not sitting there kind of mode] (ph) with you. It’s not random, you know?
THERAPIST: You’re really worried about being able to handle (inaudible at 00:30:12) over the next several weeks.
CLIENT: Yeah. There’s a lot that goes [on it] (ph).
THERAPIST: And you really miss being here.
CLIENT: That one’s confusing.
THERAPIST: Sorry. Can you do me a favor and lower the shade?
CLIENT: I don’t know if “miss” is the right word. It’s like I’ve juggled my breath between Monday and Thursday. [I think] (ph) can’t breathe. [00:31:58]
THERAPIST: Yeah. I think you’re right. I think “miss” is not the right word. I don’t mean it’s (inaudible at 00:32:21), but I think “miss” is a little too mature. Do you know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah. “Miss” implies—you know, like I miss my dad sometimes. But I don’t do anything about it. “Miss” is what will happen when I—”miss” might be the right word someday, but it’s not the right word now.
THERAPIST: Yeah. This is much more anxious and disorienting. [00:33:05]
CLIENT: Yeah, and like it’s too close, too much attachment, too much clinging. Yeah. Too much anxiety about the separation.
THERAPIST: I would guess in a way, it’s more like it misses when there are two separate cold people.
CLIENT: Right. And when the space between the people is –like when I can sort of acknowledge it and know that [Kelly noticed quite large sometimes] (ph) and all that’s okay. [00:34:09]
THERAPIST: You don’t miss the ground when you’re falling through space.
CLIENT: (Chuckles) Yeah, or like you don’t miss the atmosphere when your helmet comes off. (Pause) But it’s confusing why it isn’t so grounding because this isn’t grounding. I mean, it is in one sense because you are here with and for me and you care about me and you know me ","P1-N400A31":"(inaudible at 00:35:21). It’s not a particularly anxiety free time. There’s plenty of anxiety that comes up here. Maybe it’s the way in which it comes up and the way it gets held [that is grounded] (ph). I don’t know. [00:35:48]
THERAPIST: Maybe it’s scary how it is? [00:39:57] (Pause) And I imagine, for a few different reasons. Among that I sometimes, as in earlier this hour, don’t get that this is the main thing that you’re feeling.
CLIENT: Why don’t you get it?
THERAPIST: Well, (inaudible at 00:41:23) I don’t get it, but we’re talking about it in a way that feels, I think, more distant. Like [right now] (ph) I guess I’m thinking about when we [throwing out] (ph) how these different views on why you’re reaching out and kind of –I ","P1-N400AD1":"imagine it feels like, it sort of missed the point of this desires (ph) that you’re feeling. I’m not intending to say that it’s useless and there’s nothing to talking about it, I’m just saying I imagine it felt kind of [better removed] (ph). [00:42:16]
CLIENT: Well, less about the anxiety that I was feeling, the way that you were interpreting it. And I guess yeah, it felt like (pause) (inaudible at 00:42:39). That there wasn’t (ph) enough suffer around it.
THERAPIST: You just haven’t (inaudible at 00:43:03)?
CLIENT: (Pause) I guess [it’s kind of a turn off] (ph) that Gavin has a website. (Pause) I don’t know about the self-promotion(ness). But I don’t know him and he’s not for me. [00:44:07]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:44:35)
CLIENT: I’m having trouble with the way in which Jeremy’s potential therapist might be different from you, and therefore inferior. Like it’s not going to work or he’s not going to be good enough. (Pause)
THERAPIST: I see. Should (ph) we stop here? I will let you know if I find someone [tomorrow or Wednesday] (ph).
CLIENT: Thanks. Can you get me the receipt?
THERAPIST: Totally forgot about the meeting (ph). Yeah. Did I write something down about it and [then can’t do it] (ph)?
CLIENT: I don’t know. [00:45:59]
THERAPIST: Okay. I’m sorry I forgot. Or did you send me something about it? I feel like…
CLIENT: I sent you an e-mail with the amount.
THERAPIST: Okay. Then I’ve got it. Yes that’s right. I’m sorry.
CLIENT: Okay. Thanks.