TITLE: Client "R", Session March 14, 2014: Client discusses spouse and past therapists.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses spouse and past therapists.
CLIENT: I’ve started to settle down as I was leaving here. [00:01:00] I really settled down during [Danielle’s deaf practice screw-up.] (ph?) (sniffling) It was so soothing. It started last weekend. I didn’t go last week. It feels unlike me to skip things. I didn’t go last week ","P1-N4000B1":"because I was feeling like it was too much. Yesterday I felt welcome about it. It was very soothing just to sit for a half hour among people. [00:02:07] Danielle did some guiding. During the rest of the class I started to see my fears really, really clearly. But there is fear and, at least last night, ","P1-N4000B2":"that felt like (inaudible at 00:02:45) a lot of the discomfort. It somehow seemed that it helped. [00:03:05] Also I decided to let go of any thoughts or patterns that felt old and stale and not serving. It’s very hard to do when I’m not meditating, but last night when I was meditating everything ","P1-N4000B3":"slowed down and things weren’t coming at me so fast that I could just be like good bye, good bye, good bye. It was a half hour of that. [00:04:00] It was great.
THERAPIST: Sort of like a stewardess on a plane?
CLIENT: (chuckles) Yeah. (inaudible at 00:04:14) Yeah. I don’t know why we couldn’t do debilitating things as people. It’s like familiar or something. [00:05:02] I’m very, very afraid of my PhD going away or being taken away from me. I’m afraid of judgment because it feels ","P1-N4000F1":"so personal. I feel very afraid of this transition in my PhD and I feel very afraid of what this transition will bring when it’s over. Those things are not going to resolve really fast, so I guess it’s hard to sit with the uncertainty of that, making a whole narrative about it. [00:06:04]
THERAPIST: It seems to me your last big transition was a tough one, too.
CLIENT: Is that a joke?
THERAPIST: No. I’m reminded of getting married.
CLIENT: Yeah, every big transition in my life has been a major upheaval and not as big as my wedding and not as big as this. So yes, it doesn’t feel like I’m getting any better at transition or it feels like the transitions are getting bigger and bigger.
THERAPIST: I was intending to be a little tongue and check, but not (inaudible at 00:06:56). [00:06:59] (pause)
CLIENT: I dreamt that I had moved to Kenya. My brother is probably going to move to Morocco. Somehow I was living in a dormitory environment there. Yeah, I was living in Morocco helping people figure out which 220\/110 volt converter to use, or the other way around. (pause) [00:08:14]
THERAPIST: Maybe it seems like one aspect of this is that you are afraid you’re going to lose somebody and be very far away after transition, and in a way I think that’s true in that I think usually feeling awfully bereft in a way that other people and even you don’t anticipate or ","P1-N4001D1":"recognize generally, which is being really far away. [00:09:10]
CLIENT: I usually feel [awful like that.]
THERAPIST: I’m thinking about what you were telling me yesterday about your conversation with Kelly on Monday. Although there were certainly a lot of nice things in the conversation, there is this whole aspect of is it her and how much she means to you and her different ideas of what you needed ","P1-N400211":"and all of that that were so separate from so much of where you are about the transition. [00:09:57]
CLIENT: I’m trying to think of the words I would use to explain it to her if I ever wanted to. She hasn’t written back to me, my e-mail. (pause) It never bugs me when people don’t write back to my e-mails. I’m very bad at responding to people’s e-mails. Or there is a split ","P1-N400231":"second thing where I decide this is full of thought in response to right now or not. And if it doesn’t it can sit in my starred area of my inbox for weeks and people usually have to e-mail me again. (pause) You wouldn’t know. [00:11:56] I think there is this sucking-up kind of thing, certainly ","P1-N400232":"with Kelly. I don’t know if it’s just the common way of responding to somebody. It sounds like maybe they’re complaining or they’re not doing what they should be doing or could be doing to make things better. I’m not that fond of needing that in her. It feels better to ","P1-N400233":"just keep her out of it than to have that talk. (pause) [00:13:08]
THERAPIST: I think that’s sort of a crucial decision that you make actually, that when you are feeling kind of hurt and a bit left out by someone that way, that you often are loathe talking to them about it and, as a result, tend to keep it to yourself and sort of keep by yourself with it. [00:14:04] ","P1-N400251":"And then sometimes, I think, you may not be so clear about it yourself. At other times, you know you’re sad, but not quite sure what happened, I think. I think part of the reason you loathe it is because it feels like you’re not on the same page as the person. You’re on two different ","P1-N400252":"pages. [00:15:00]
CLIENT: Which we might be, in this case.
THERAPIST: And that they won’t make much space from where you are. There is a kind of register that you’re in that they can’t be or don’t get or something.
CLIENT: I think it’s different with different people, but with Kelly, I think she entirely does get it. [00:15:59] I think she has a lot of anxiety in her life and is dealing with it in her son pretty much all the time and they’re doing a lot. She and I have been at critical points over ","P1-N4002B1":"the last few years and I have been in close touch about my own stuff, so I don’t feel like she wouldn’t get it. Often what I feel with her is that she has chosen to deal with her own stuff in a certain way. It’s very uncomfortable for me if I have chosen to deal with my stuff in a ","P1-N4002B2":"different way. [00:17:03] I guess that’s it. It’s discomfort. She has this big carrot that she’s holding and also she means a lot. What she thinks of me means a lot. Do I want her to think that I’m stuffing my emotions away? No, because that’s not what I want to do with ","P1-N4002B3":"them. Do I want her to think that I’m doing the right thing or what she thinks is right? Yeah. [Sometimes it conflicts. Always.] (ph?) (pause) It’s like in the short-term tunnel vision, it sounds like it’s really bad for her to think that I’m giving a lot of attention to feelings ","P1-N4002B4":"and personal hindrances and that she will judge me and that that’s bad. If I really step back, this has most always been the case. She will probably come to admire this and maybe already does. [00:19:05]
THERAPIST: You mean if you step out, something that may be a little more [transferrential] (ph?) from you?
CLIENT: Really? I think she’s playing a pretty big role in the particular way that it makes me uncomfortable. Maybe not in the way that it makes me uncomfortable.
THERAPIST: I guess also because you said if I really step way back.
CLIENT: I guess I mean like if I step forward in the future. [00:20:02] They mean the same thing, but if I go to a place where she doesn’t have the carrot anymore and I’m done with her lab, that is the place where I can see I’m my own person, I have my own path, and she admires my ","P1-N400331":"path. So that’s what I meant. I don’t actually feel too capable of stepping back like that now. I would like to. I think that’s partly a little bit what I got last night, or at least I could see how close I was. [00:21:06] (long pause) [00:22:05] There is a sort of immature aspect ","P1-N400332":"of it that I’m also trying to be careful of, which is that I think if I am going to somebody when I’m feeling badly, I really want them to just take it from me and solve it or hold it in a way that relieves me of needing to hold it. I see that here and I see that with Jeremy and I see that ","P1-N400333":"with my parents. I don’t want that. I don’t really want to work that out with her, so I guess I’m being careful and sort of leaning in because I don’t want it to be a situation where it seems like I want her to take something that I don’t actually want her to take. I think ","P1-N400334":"I kind of do, but I don’t want to put her in that position so it’s easier for me to lean back a little bit. I’m not sure why those have to be the two alternatives. (pause)
THERAPIST: We have a little more than 15 minutes and I thought I would mention the stuff with Jeremy. I guess my point is it seems to me if you want to talk about it today, we should probably start, but it’s completely up to you whether you want to talk about it today or another day. [00:24:12]
CLIENT: Yeah, let’s talk about it today.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: What would you like to know?
THERAPIST: What did he say?
CLIENT: So he said – I have my notes but I’m not going to use them because I’m self-conscious about how you made fun of me for it yesterday.
THERAPIST: I made fun of you?
CLIENT: You smiled and you said it was funny that I said that I have notes on Jeremy. I think I didn’t really get it.
THERAPIST: Oh. I wasn’t meaning to make fun of you. It was like, in a way, who do you know better and who do you have in your mind more clearly. [00:25:01] Jeremy, he’s like 5’11”, he was acting in Waltham. That’s why I was laughing. It wasn’t that I didn’t ","P1-N400451":"get it or that I didn’t think it was reasonable. It was just ironic. I don’t know why it struck me. I could think about it.
CLIENT: I think it applies in this case, too. I know what he told me. I don’t need the notes.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: I think I’m afraid of misrepresenting him and I think that’s something that I often do.
THERAPIST: Is it partly because you’re so excited?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And there is some way in which that excitement, I think, makes you a little childlike or small.
CLIENT: Yeah. Like I’m going to ruin it so I might as well tell you what he said.
THERAPIST: I can see how it felt, then, like I was teasing you. If you were already feeling kind of small and a little hesitant and so excited, I don’t think that’s exactly what I was replying to, but I can see, given that, it’s where you were coming from and why it felt a little crummy. [00:26:09]
CLIENT: No. It didn’t feel crummy. I felt sheepish, which doesn’t feel crummy to me.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: I feel sheepish a lot. What would you like to know?
THERAPIST: What was it that he said?
CLIENT: (laughs) He said he doesn’t know what he’s looking for. He was just sort of tell me about the people he has seen. He saw someone at four for like three months that he didn’t remember. [00:27:00] The next time he saw a therapist was when he was 18 and he came back from Vassar ","P1-N4005F1":"having been asked to leave from his first semester because he couldn’t write. He was a brilliant writer, but he couldn’t write words on paper and (inaudible at 00:27:18). He came home for an entire year and went back the next fall and during that year he saw Erica, who he thought was wonderful ","P1-N4005F2":"and is the only therapist he has really connected with.
THERAPIST: Where was that?
CLIENT: In Maine; probably in Augusta. He said about Erica that she provided access to the low-hanging fruit: mindfulness, she brought mindfulness into his life, being aware of self-critical thoughts was the main thing he said about their time together. [00:28:05] And that there was a lot of stuff on ","P1-N400631":"the surface to be dealt with and it was sort of crucial for him to deal with it. She was very compassionate and very wise and they had a good connection. Then he had two therapists at Vassar, Terry Mills and Brandon Miles. He says that that time, which was five years, was very fuzzy. He doesn’t ","P1-N400632":"remember much about any of the sessions. He said that he wasn’t really in a position to work on himself and he said, “I don’t know if I’m ever in a position to work on myself.” [00:28:59] He said that ADD took up a lot of time in the sessions, like talking about ADD, and ","P1-N400633":"I sort of grumbled about the label at that point, but he didn’t seem to mind. So that’s what he remembers about Terry. He said Brandon Miles’s sessions were really fuzzy. He said it was an excruciating time in his life. There was lots and lots and lots of trauma, so it doesn’t feel vivid.
THERAPIST: Trauma like relating to school work?
CLIENT: Yeah. I kind of remember, knowing what I know now about his and my anxiety, he was probably in the throes of very severe anxiety for years and he didn’t seem to be able to find any kind of respite, other than to avoid his work, which he did most of the time. [00:30:11] Brandon practiced ","P1-N400671":"a bit of CDT, but in terms of the practice style, those three, he didn’t really have anything to say. I saw Brandon and Terry once – I think I saw Brandon twice – and I don’t remember anything like that defining. Then he kind of went on break and when he and I both started therapy ","P1-N400672":"in July, 2012, he started seeing this woman, Alice, who he sort of just found by calling the B.U. [00:31:11] Alice’s sessions, he said, are very clear to him, as opposed to Brandon and Terry’s. They helped a lot at the beginning because he said, basically, it helped just to talk to anybody. ","P1-N400673":"He saw her twice a week for the first six months. She is fairly patient-directed and she has said some insightful things, but in general, was pretty off most of the time and didn’t really remember much of what he told her and, at times, it was very clear that she hadn’t remembered what he ","P1-N400674":"had said. [00:31:57]
THERAPIST: Alice?
CLIENT: Alice. Granted, Jeremy showed up 20 minutes late for most of the sessions and Alice took weeks and weeks and weeks off, which I object to very strongly. He didn’t mind at all. Basically, after those first six months where he seemed pretty committed to showing up and talking, the next year ","P1-N4006B1":"and a half was like he could care less if he saw her. He kind of, in general, feels like therapy feels kind of like a burden, but he knows that it’s good for him and that it has helped and it has been better with than without it. [00:32:46] The reason why he finally chose to end things with Alice ","P1-N4006B2":"is because, of all the stuff, he couldn’t care less about seeing her, which I think is a result of the whole time, but the session where he brought up the fact that he wanted to stop, she had sort of said she had heard somebody talking about some kind of neuro-biology grant-writing job and that ","P1-N4006B3":"maybe that would be a good job for him to apply for. There were all sorts of things about that that to him felt . . .
THERAPIST: She said that before he said he . . ?
CLIENT: Yeah. This is what caused him to [say it (ph?) in that moment on that day – because you’re in neuroscience and because you’re good at writing. Jeremy’s entire relationship with writing has been so fraught. It’s been the source of most of the anxiety in school. And ","P1-N4006F1":"he wants to be a musician. That’s mostly what he’s talked to her about.
THERAPIST: I see. That seems way, way off.
CLIENT: Yes, like do you know me . . ?
THERAPIST: Clearly way off and uninformed. [00:34:03]
CLIENT: Yeah. (pause)
THERAPIST: Where was she, geographically?
CLIENT: She was in the south. She is no longer with us.
THERAPIST: She was south?
CLIENT: She’s in the south and he is a university employee so he goes to the university on Fridays and went to see her in the mornings and then would maybe work. He would tool around the Internet and then tool around in music.
THERAPIST: Right. He’s in Providence four days, you said.
CLIENT: Marlborough.
THERAPIST: Marlborough rather than Providence. Closer. [00:35:01] He sat around on Fridays? Okay.
CLIENT: He maybe wants to see a man, but he wasn’t sure and I feel that way, too, consistent with . . . I should mention the academic coach, who was also a woman. He saw Chiara for a year and a half in college and she was excellent. She wasn’t a therapist, but he saw her one-to-five days ","P1-N400871":"a week and she was really, really intimate with his stuff.
THERAPIST: Yeah, that sounds like a lot of the barometer, in a way, is the extent of the intimacy. It sounds like it was there with her because she was in the trenches with him. [00:36:00]
CLIENT: And she had a dog. It was basically, “I can go to Chiara’s and I can open my computer and look at this shitty stuff because I get to hold Justine,” and Chiara would make him cookies and it was just a very intimate holding.
THERAPIST: I’ve done that. Not with the dog and the cookies, but kids, I think, and a couple of adults, usually when I was first starting out, there were people I would see for three two-hour sessions. For the academic stuff we would hunker down and work. I wish more people did that. That’s ","P1-N4008D1":"just a little sidebar.
CLIENT: I wonder if I wished Jeremy did that. [00:36:54]
THERAPIST: Honestly, from what you said, my hunch is that’s not probably what he needs most now and that it would be something of a diversion from what he needs now.
CLIENT: It doesn’t seem to you like he needs most now. I guess the last two things I’ll mention to you is that he hasn’t really that clearly described his troubles that many times, but the few times that he has recently, it’s sort of like “I want to work on music. I fear ","P1-N400931":"that I will never be productive at it and it feels like I’m up against this wall of productivity.” That’s one thing. And the second thing is that he feels adrift.
THERAPIST: Yep. Another thing I feel for this – we’re going to stop in a couple of minutes. I’m going to need to stop right at 8:30. [00:38:04] There is actually somebody I’m taking to about something else later today who I think might be a good guy who is stated as an analyst, ","P1-N400951":"but also was trained as a neuro-psychologist and for a while did neuro (inaudible at 00:38:16) testing. I know he has worked pretty well and know a bunch of people who know him who all think very highly of him. So let me see if he has time because I’m talking to him anyway this afternoon, as it happens.
CLIENT: Where is he?
THERAPIST: He’s in Providence. I know that’s not ideal but . . .
CLIENT: Okay.
THERAPIST: I have a couple of other thoughts if that doesn’t work out. We can start there.
CLIENT: Okay. Will I hear from you Monday? [00:38:57]
THERAPIST: If I hear he has got time, let’s talk a little more on Monday. I’ll tell you a little bit more about him, about Gavin, before just saying give him a call. If it was just going to be like “here’s his number; give him a call,” I would just let you know today if ","P1-N400A11":"he had time. But let me think a little more, too.