TITLE: Client "R", Session March 10, 2014: Client discusses grandfather and aging.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses grandfather and aging.
CLIENT: Dumb day to ride a bike.
THERAPIST: Dumb day to ride what? Ride a bike in?
CLIENT: I know.
THERAPIST: No. That was a question. I was not asserting that.
CLIENT: It is a dumb day to ride a bike, I know.
THERAPIST: Oh, okay. You mean because it’s snowing and slippery?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: And that was what I was thinking when I saw you?
CLIENT: I don’t know. I just wanted to make it clear that I knew that it was not a great day to ride a bike.
THERAPIST: Okay. Noted. (Pause) [00:00:53]
CLIENT: You want some cookies?
THERAPIST: I’ll have a cookie. Thanks. [Do you] (ph) have more cookies?
CLIENT: You want another cookie?
THERAPIST: Sure. I’ll take another. Thank you.
CLIENT: Sure. [00:01:52]
THERAPIST: Mmm. That’s very good. Thanks. Are they lemon sugar cookies?
CLIENT: Yeah. They’re lemon sugar cookies.
THERAPIST: Mmm. Very good.
CLIENT: My good friend was diagnosed with MS the other day.
THERAPIST: Oh no. That’s horrible.
CLIENT: It is horrible. (Pause)
THERAPIST: Let me also just bring up, [either now] (ph) or another time, but the names for (inaudible at 00:02:34) is probably like a bit of a conversation that’s not a (inaudible at 00:02:39).
CLIENT: Yeah. I think it’s probably—yeah. I need (ph) talk about it.
THERAPIST: Okay. Like now, you mean?
CLIENT: Like, yeah. In a few minutes.
THERAPIST: Sure.
CLIENT: Or today. (Pause) His name is Bryan and he’s the boyfriend of my best friend in my program. So we’re [all really friends] (ph) with one person in my program, Erica. [00:03:29]
THERAPIST: He’s staying at the hospital?
CLIENT: He’s at Mass General. We actually walked him home yesterday, so he’s home now. So the one lesion is active, so that’s why he was experiencing symptoms. And when a lesion is active, the current standard of care is to take steroids. Like suppressive immune system (inaudible at ","P1-N400491":"00:06:44). The immune cells that are causing the problem.
THERAPIST: Oh. I didn’t know that. [00:09:55]
CLIENT: And—this is the one who lives with my parents. He’s 89. He’s going to be 90 in November (ph).
THERAPIST: He has a thriving meditation practice.
CLIENT: I don’t know what the state of his meditation practice is. (Chuckles) I certainly don’t know what the state of his guru is.
THERAPIST: (Laughs) We’re working [on it though] (ph).
CLIENT: Yeah? (Laughs) He’s had five strokes.
THERAPIST: Wow. I did not know that.
CLIENT: Yeah. He’s the main one that I’ve spent a lot of time in the hospital with.
THERAPIST: I see.
CLIENT: And after one of the strokes, he had a month long stay (ph) at a nursing home as part of rehabilitation and then like a day of trying it as a permanent thing and my dad and he—it was like their whole world caved in and they couldn’t handle it. [00:11:00]
THERAPIST: He nor your dad?
CLIENT: Yeah. He nor my dad. So this story is more about my dad than ajooba. But yeah, there’s a long history. I mean, going back to when my dad’s mom died and then when his brother took his life. My dad has one remaining sister and in that culture it’s your son who you sort of take ","P1-N400651":"up as your main place of living if you’re old or if you’re a widow. So he came to live with my parents the day that they got married and has been sort of—he lived like half a year with them for the first like 10 or 15 years. [00:12:04]
THERAPIST: Like getting in and out of the bathroom and stuff like that.
CLIENT: Yeah. And my parents obviously take care of him and always on the 2 days that Margo’s not there and then they spent like many months doing it before they found somebody. So Saturday morning at like 6:00 in the morning, he has a commode by his bed and he was going to use the commode and ","P1-N4006D1":"he fell. He’s fallen before many times, you can imagine, without eyesight and that many strokes. [00:14:52]
THERAPIST: You mentioned three things that –one was coming out of general anesthesia. Another is a fever. And then there was another one?
CLIENT: I said the same thing twice. When he’s sick. So not necessarily fever but when—he’s fainted when he’s had like stomach flu.
THERAPIST: Right. And when he hears his father whistle, that’s another one.
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: So there’s like maybe not anxiety, and then there’s like anxiety in my reading of it.
THERAPIST: What do you mean? [00:18:18]
CLIENT: I will elaborate. So it’s like complete circus. My grandfather, the [three of the times] (ph) my grandfather is having a stroke and my mom has to deal with my grandfather and then my dad who’s like on the floor.
THERAPIST: Fainted?
CLIENT: Fainted. And like, Margo can’t drive and she doesn’t speak super great English and it’s just like total chaos. There’s a lot of humor around it now because it’s just happened enough times. So my parents have started to deal with this. My mom now will be the one ","P1-N400871":"to respond to ajooba. So Saturday morning, she was like, “Don’t get out of bed. I will go.” And he experienced the same symptoms, so it’s not just fainting. And actually, I don’t know that he’s actually gone unconscious every one of those times.
THERAPIST: He gets light headed.
CLIENT: He gets like drenched with sweat, he goes nauseous, his muscles go limp and yeah, sometimes he faints. So Saturday morning he said that he felt everything coming on and he worked so hard to get through it and not faint and stayed in bed and took like 15 minutes. And meanwhile, who knows what’s ","P1-N4008B1":"happening with ajooba (ph). He didn’t know.
THERAPIST: It must be very frightening.
CLIENT: Yes. It’s very very frightening. So he called me in the afternoon. He doesn’t usually… hang on. I’m unable to think of words when I’m lying down. [00:20:37]
THERAPIST: Maybe it’s [what you’re talking about] (ph).I guess I’m thinking like you had just got to the part about him lying there and not knowing what’s going on. Not able to do anything, [feeling pain] (ph), having a hard time and then having to call you.
CLIENT: Yeah. He called me like after it was all over. But yeah, I am very preoccupied with it. I have been, since he called me. [00:21:46] (Pause)
THERAPIST: How?
CLIENT: (Pause) Thanks for being so engaged.
THERAPIST: (Chuckles) Sure.
CLIENT: It feels very juicy. What happened and what I’m saying. [00:23:56] (Pause)
THERAPIST: It’s not manifesting in OCD or insomnia or something [like that] (ph).
CLIENT: That’s right. Right. Those are much better examples. I was like, “Other people might have…” But I couldn’t really think of anything. Like sweaty palms? But wait. We have sweaty palms when we faint too. [00:25:27] (Pause)
THERAPIST: Are you aware of what kind or reaction you’re having to my [being specially engaged] (ph)?
CLIENT: Yes. It’s the same very very sad and very very seductive like split, that I’m telling you something that’s like for once not about me and you. But what’s so over shadowing always is what is about me and you? It’s about whatever I’m telling you about. And it’s ","P1-N400AD1":"very exciting to tell you about it, especially because much of what I told my dad was sort of what has come out of here. [00:27:25]
THERAPIST: Yeah. My hunch is that I think there’s a kind of feeling of passivity that goes along with the stag (ph) part? And my hunch is that maybe that combination of sadness and worry and passivity, may have related to the fainting? [00:30:39] (Pause)
CLIENT: He’s very tender. It’s not just the passivity and the sadness though. There’s something about the energy and the excitement. He’s very anxious. And it didn’t start out that way. It actually felt clear and natural and calm, which I still kind of do. I think it helps ","P1-N400B71":"to talk about what else is happening as it’s happening. [00:31:58]
THERAPIST: You haven’t mentioned it but I guess I’m also imagining his dying, hanging over the…
CLIENT: Yeah. It’s almost like if he died today everybody would be happier. I think dying is very scary and bad, but I think being…
THERAPIST: Something about the nursing home being more so.
CLIENT: Being unable to care for your parent is like—being able to care for your parent is the main point of life for my dad.
THERAPIST: I see. Yeah. And to have him alive and someway available but be unable to do is what’s so drastic, not sort of losing him altogether. [00:35:51]
CLIENT: Yeah. I think there’s a lot of sort of spiritual and just joint acknowledgment and support of death being something that’s going to happen and it sort of feels like there’s a little bit of buffer around that and a way to talk about it. And I don’t think there’s ","P1-N400C91":"the same thing around slowly losing all your functions. (Pause) [00:36:18]
THERAPIST: Well, does sound like if he were to (inaudible at 00:37:18) helpful for them and that would actually make it easier for him to take care of him.
CLIENT: I think so
THERAPIST: And he’d probably do more.
CLIENT: To take care of him? What do you mean?
THERAPIST: Well, if he wasn’t worried about fainting…
CLIENT: Oh yeah. In that moment he would do more. Yeah.
THERAPIST: [How many] (ph) other things like that, I don’t know, but if he felt less anxious and sturdier, he could probably do more for his dad.
CLIENT: Yeah. I think there’s a lot to be gained.
THERAPIST: I guess I also meant—honestly that’s an angle that I’m thinking cynically of our trying to sell it to him, or trying to sell him therapy. You know what I mean?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: That’s what [he cares about] (ph).
CLIENT: I’m worried about my role in this. Sort of like the same excitement and worry. Like my dad and Ben are both going to change… You know, it’s sort of like a dream. I couldn’t finish my sentence. I can’t really say what it is. Like, change something important. [00:39:01]
THERAPIST: Is there something too about the way they’re putting themselves in your hand? (inaudible at 00:39:16)
CLIENT: Yeah. Not just that they’re putting themselves in my hands but that they’re both really self-aware, I think. They both care a lot about themselves. They’re honoring my hard earned sort of wisdom or whatever. Yeah. It’s like who they are and what I’ve done that’s ","P1-N400E51":"special about it. Not just that they’re helping (ph). There’s a lot of acknowledging on my dad’s part that he cares about himself too much to ignore this.
THERAPIST: That’s all really great. [00:40:05]
CLIENT: Yeah. I feel an urgency about it because ajooba’s 89. That’s why I feel worried. It’s also hard to know how to find somebody.
THERAPIST: We have like five minutes. Should we talk about Jeremy (ph)?
CLIENT: Yeah.
THERAPIST: So… (Pause) Yeah. I’m happy to reconsider this. My thought is that you and I talk a little more about what would be helpful or the kind of person you think would be helpful and then if I can come up with a few names and maybe he can start with one and decide if he wants to shop ","P1-N400EF1":"a little bit. That seems probably better than my talking to him. (inaudible at 00:41:07) talking to him, but it actually is necessary. (Pause) I don’t think that kind of match making would have a lot of (inaudible at 00:41:28).
CLIENT: You think that would take away something (ph)?
THERAPIST: (Pause) Yeah, it’s complicated. In a way, I don’t think this needs to be—I mean, if I thought that there’d be real advantage in my meeting and talking with him for a while about it, like [it would really] (ph) help me find the right person. You know, I doubt it will. ","P1-N400F31":"[It’s not going to help] (ph) that much actually.
CLIENT: Okay. [00:42:01]
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 00:42:09) tough to find somebody who’s good, who is…
CLIENT: Jeremy has decided that he can see somebody on Friday any time. That’s what he has been doing. He’s been not going into Framingham on Fridays to see Susan.
THERAPIST: So is he—his work is usually in Marlborough?
CLIENT: Okay. If there’s someone really good in Marlborough, I guess that would be better. But he doesn’t have a car out there. He’s part of this car pool, like really cool, nice people who’d probably let him borrow their car but I don’t see him embracing that.
THERAPIST: So [he’s out] (ph) in Marlborough four days a week. (Pause) And then he’s around on Fridays and can see somebody on Friday. And he’s gone all—he gets back around quarter to six? [00:43:12]
CLIENT: He gets back at like, between 5:10 and 5:20, 5:30.
THERAPIST: And he gets back to Porter (sp?)
CLIENT: He gets back to Central (sp?).
THERAPIST: Okay. Right. He’s carpooling but he’s not (inaudible at 00:43:26). Okay. And are the carpoolers all in Waltham?
CLIENT: I mean, you should tell us people who are good and he can figure it out. He might decide it’s not worth seeing them because it’s too hard but that -
THERAPIST: All right. That’s good for me now. So this isn’t necessarily that urgent. I’ll give you the names of the people that I think would be best or most appropriate.
CLIENT: Ben has seen too many therapists for too long and this feels—the quality of this feels very very different. This feels like—I want to see someone who could help me change my life. [00:44:18]
THERAPIST: I want to hear—we’re going to stop in a minute, but I want to hear a little more about what kind of (inaudible at 00:44:30).
CLIENT: He’s a knocker.
THERAPIST: Yeah. I want to hear a little more about (chuckles)—I have sort of two types of people in mind. I can give a couple of people who are sort of about my age and (inaudible at 00:45:06) very good. One’s in Providence and one’s in Waltham, and both of them I’ve shared ","P1-N401131":"patients with and who I have colleagues who know their work quite well and think very highly of them. You know, and then there’s sort of the other possibility would be the heavy-hitter (ph) sort of person, which would be the person like, mid-60s or something. Sort of a senior person in the field ","P1-N401132":"and I (inaudible at 00:45:34) people like that as well. I mean, some of them I think are very good. Problem with those people is—actually probably not any harder to get in to see. They’re a lot more expensive is the thing, potentially. But those are the two sorts of people I’m thinking ","P1-N401133":"of and I can think of a few people in both categories.
CLIENT: Like exactly as long as I’ve been seeing you. He stopped with her.
THERAPIST: Okay. All right. We just -
CLIENT: Can I write to you?
THERAPIST: You can. Does it feel like this is more urgent than talking about it on Thursday?
CLIENT: Kind of. I don’t know if it’s just my own…
THERAPIST: All right. Well, think about it. I think it’s probably a phone rather than an e-mail. [00:46:45]
CLIENT: Okay. So…
THERAPIST: I will write you an e-mail about it later today—about making a point to talk about it before Thursday.
CLIENT: Okay. So I guess [his seeing you] (ph)?
THERAPIST: I don’t think so.