TITLE: Client "M", Session April 02, 2014: Client discusses husband's family, the need to lose weight for pregnancy, and religion.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses husband's family, the need to lose weight for pregnancy, and religion.
CLIENT: So I just wanted to confirm just really quickly that in the next two weeks I won’t be in, because of traveling\/rescheduling work so I can travel. When I go to Cincinnati.
THERAPIST: Let me write it down. There is also a week I will be out which may be the following one. I have to be out of town. So you are out next week, which must be -
CLIENT: The 9th. It’s quite likely the 16th. Is it the 23rd that you’re gone? Let me see what I can do to try to come in on the 16th then. But defiantly the 9th.
THERAPIST: I was going to see if there another time that would be easier on the week of the 16th.
CLIENT: Let me find out. It’s possible that that Friday, the 18th, possibly.
THERAPIST: I actually leave in the afternoon on Friday.
CLIENT: That’s no big deal.
THERAPIST: We’ll figure it out. [1:34]
CLIENT: It’s been sort of one of those weeks with just stuff. The – I guess I could start with this. Did I mention to you that as much as I had been hoping never to accidentally run into Mike’s mother again, that she’s moving back to Miami?
THERAPIST: No.
CLIENT: Yeah. In fact, she may be there already. She fucked it up first. We’re not going to do anything to get (inaudible at 2:11) at all, but feeling we just tend to do dumbass shit when we’re going to do something and then, surprise, this person’s here, too. So it’s this kind ","P1-N4001F1":"of bullshit. That’s partly why this memorial needed to be done when It did, because she was moving back to Miami. [2:35] So that went on this weekend. We weren’t there. And there were a couple of other deaths over the weekend. So, oh, fuck. My mom’s brother – my uncle actually, ","P1-N4001F2":"but, you know, passed from diabetes complications. It’s very frustrating to me, mostly because getting right information of my mother is almost impossible.
THERAPIST: It’s not just that you weren’t able to get to either of the memorials, but that you’re kind of excluded.
CLIENT: My mom was right about this. This was a last minute thing very specifically and we were already going to be in town. She’s like – she wasn’t want of those, we don’t want to be included. She understood – and she was right that it would be almost impossible to get ","P1-N400271":"down there. It wasn’t like, an excluded one. This eon. My mom got a phone call on Tuesday finding out that her sisters had made a different change and decided that they wanted to do something. So she found out with like, 12 hours’ notice for viewing the body. [6:01] It was more of a – ","P1-N400272":"in a large family, things are complicated, and I know she’s right. And we’ll with them next week to try to spend some time with family. But, it’ just like I said, it’s just one of those things that’s really frustrating. You know, especially because like I said, that happened on Friday.
THERAPIST: Fertility stuff?
CLIENT: Yeah. Right now, she really wants to make sure that – she’s like, basically, your drugs are being damaged. We’re very near a window to get your pregnant. I’m not having trouble – I’ve always had trouble walking, but I am in extreme pain lately.
THERAPIST: Did they – because of changes they’ve made?
CLIENT: I had to go off certain medications for months to be able to – One of the things that they give with methotrexate – it’s also used for abortions in China. It’s an anti-metabaloid. So it’s pretty bad. And it’s used for treating cancer, so they need to get all ","P1-N400331":"that entirely out of your system. And she’s wanted to be as – she basically – and I was really worried, because I did some quick research on her and a lot of people mentioned she was very cold and they didn’t feel she was very easy to talk to. [9:15] I thought she was fine talking ","P1-N400332":"to. Especially, she totally got it. I was telling her in terms of this – I’m an engineer. Whether or not turning my cycles is really helpful right now, and makes you feel uninvolved. There’s this data point that makes you feel Iike I have – She was, I totally get this. This is ","P1-N400333":"great. That kind of thing. She really got that kind of attitude for this kind of stuff. I wasn’t going to tell her this, but it just sort of came out which is, you know, one of the contributing factors to (inaudible 9:15) was infertility. Specifically, infertility and depression with that, and ","P1-N400334":"then also not top of it, the drugs that they give you for to stimulate your ovaries can make you very, very unbalanced.
THERAPIST: I don’t know if this is any help to you, but I saw somebody a while ago with rheumatoid arthritis who was going through IVF and other things like that and who found the Center for Reproductive Immunology that they found helpful.
CLIENT: Once you get pregnant, it is almost always, if you stay pregnant, you almost always go through remission. That is the good thing. This might be the same place. [11:20]
THERAPIST: No, this is actually, the person wasn’t living here. This was in Arizona.
CLIENT: I will look into that, then.
THERAPIST: It’s called the Medical Center, I think.
CLIENT: It’s easy to remember.
THERAPIST: Like I said, I have no idea if that’s -
CLIENT: Yeah. I’ll plan to take a look at it. This place seems pretty good, but I would definitely – and they seem to be very good about being okay with working with other people. For example, before we even go forward, I need to get evaluated for a whole bunch of things, one of which is ","P1-N400451":"that they need to know if they need to make sure – she wants to make sure that I get cleared by a high-risk obstetrician and my rheumatologist to find out whether or not twins are okay. Because they can stop that from happening. It lowers your chances, but she’s really worried about the ","P1-N400452":"strain on my joints amongst other things. [12:14] So the fact that she was like, you know, we need to figure this part out. She’s very much aware that this has to happen fast.
THERAPIST: It seems like she’s very proactive and very organized in her thinking.
CLIENT: Very proactive. But also, she didn’t do it in a way that made me think, you’re getting too old. You know, I mean, yes, I am older, but she said a lot of places are like yeah.
THERAPIST: So she’s problem solving. Very comfortable.
CLIENT: For instance, advanced maternal age, it was never brought up, which was very good. So that was really good. It’s just a lot of invasive testing and a bunch of other stuff that they have to do.
THERAPIST: When does the fun start?
CLIENT: It depends. One of the tests has to be done 30 days after my period starts, so it’s one of the screwed up – things stop immediately for that kind of thing. Mike’s started already having testing done any day now pretty much. So they’re doing a lot of genetic testing, too. ","P1-N400511":"[13:19] They’re aware that I have problems. His stuff is completely a mystery. My stuff is still a little bit of a mystery in terms of people aren’t always really up front talking. The thing is, for my thing, though, it more of a culture – It’s not as culture as in, you don’t ","P1-N400512":"talk about your problems. It was like, if you died from a really bad strain of TB, the hospital was, you know.
THERAPIST: Absolutely.
CLIENT: Also though, because certain things have to happen on certain days, a lot of things are seven days a week practice. It happens that that day lands on a Sunday, they have to do it that day.
THERAPIST: That’s great.
CLIENT: Yeah, it’s really great. The fact that basically, each one of the doctors in this practice – it is one for the treatment center is entirely there for (inaudible at 15:07) or whatever it is. Something like that. Each person you call for scheduling. You don’t call this massive ","P1-N4005B1":"group. There is a person you call. And that person schedules only for that doctor. So a lot of – and it could be, and a lot of it is, because a majority of the clients are paying a fortune. But also, the fact that so many things are timely in nature.
THERAPIST: That makes sense. That must be really reassuring to be getting very good care.
CLIENT: So, just like I said, I just have to find out going forward, what’d going to happen, that kind of stuff.
THERAPIST: How much is going off the medications that you’ve gone off and going through all the testing going to affect things for you. Will it affect your work schedule?
CLIENT: I don’t know yet. At this point, the testing probably not, but I don’t know. [16:15] We’re going to find a way to make it work. I do know that going off the medication’s been really – I don’t know if I –actually, I legitimately don’t know if it’s ","P1-N400631":"going off the medication or this is something new that’s happening. I’ve always had problems with my hip. The area which is being influenced has expanded. I think that it’s just because of the fact that I’m in more pain and I’m compensating for it. And I’m pulling ","P1-N400632":"muscles a little bit higher up in my back now, I think. But, you know, I’m in a lot of pain. It’s really hard.
THERAPIST: You get healthier even hearing about them.
CLIENT: It’s really not that great. And a part of it’s also the fact that I need – having so many members of my family having so many severe problems. Basically, other health problems being highly exacerbated by diabetes. The doctor said to me, I’m not super paranoid about it, ","P1-N4006D1":"but I definitely will be careful for the future. I don’t want to get like that. My grandma lost her leg and my Uncle Dave has been in the hospital. He’s been opposed to being – he has not been in the hospital. The closest thing of not being in the hospital he has been in has been in ","P1-N4006D2":"rehabilitation facilities and more than two years, three years, maybe. Because he got an injury on his leg. [20:06] It’s weird because I was expecting him to lose the leg, to be honest. But even in my brain he had never like – never had a leg. Because he had an infection with MRSA that never ","P1-N4006D3":"went away. They did their best.
THERAPIST: I see. She’ll push you to eat other things.
CLIENT: Yeah. But right now I technically need to be 30 pounds lighter for them to want to do IVF on me. [21:05] There is some fudging. In fact, the woman that weighed me told me that if I accidentally – like if I wore heels one day and I accidentally forgot to take them off, because of my height ","P1-N400731":"that would be okay. Because, I’m 5 foot four and a half. And if I made it up to five foot five and a half, it would be the amount of weight I need to lose would be significantly less. She understands it. I have rheumatoid arthritis. I can exactly move a lot. (inaudible due to simultaneous dialogue ","P1-N400732":"at 21:40) But it’s just one of those things where that probably changes your metabolism. Not permanently, but it might as well be. It takes a very long time.
THERAPIST: And you’re saying that was one of the reasons you had gained weight in the first place.
CLIENT: I’m naturally very thin. Used to be, at least. But it’s been so long now, I don’t even think about it that way. But I do. But yeah, it’s – But I’m not trying to be like, you know, restricting my food or anything like that. I’m just really trying hard ","P1-N400771":"to find some way to find things to eat that are not so bad for me, and it’s tricky. It’s really tricky.
THERAPIST: You mean that are bad calorie wise, or healthier?
CLIENT: In general. Both of them. It is hard to find things that are both. Because there are, you know, and this is one of the things. [22:36] If I decide to worry about my diabetes – I don’t have diabetes – but getting diabetes, then I have to use like, especially because everyone ","P1-N4007B1":"drinks with artificial sweeteners. Because there are at least some suggestions that, although they don’t have calories, they do change your insulin regulation. Not like that people who wear tin foil hats, but there’s vague – there’s a little bit of suggestion for that in reality. ","P1-N4007B2":"I don’t know. But that way I’m just trying to when I can, not.
THERAPIST: I think I remember that.
CLIENT: Okay, so when Mike and I were getting married, my mom really didn’t attend Catholic Church very much at all. She did all this other stuff or whatever. Basically, she was raised originally orthodox. But there wasn’t much orthodox – Russian Orthodox in the US where she was. There ","P1-N400811":"is sort of a cross-compatibility with Catholicism. They accept each other’s sacraments, blah, blah. And she went to Catholic school, etcetera. Well, both of my parents did. Neither one of them attended mass much at all. I can think of maybe one time in my entire period of time I lived with them ","P1-N400812":"that my mom did it, and I think it was for my first communion. I just wanted to make sure I wore my dress or something like that.
THERAPIST: Competitive church going?
CLIENT: Yeah. But it’s not like my soul is safer. It’s like, I know more about this than you do, and therefore I made a willful choice about being involved.
THERAPIST: I wasn’t copping out, it was an informed decision.
CLIENT: It was an informed decision and I can do this better than you can, even more so if I need to. And for a while they were sort of antagonizing her with this. Like, this a long-time to do this for a dare or whatever. At some point my dad basically said, stop bothering your mother. We’re getting ","P1-N4008B1":"older. Just leave it alone. And I’m like, okay. [26:24] At some point I stopped. I still occasionally give her a hard time about this. And then now, my mom has been doing this thing where – going to visit hospitals, people in the hospital. I’m like, Mom, please don’t do this. ","P1-N4008B2":"When I’m in the hospital, the last thing – I have been harassed by those people who want to give me sacraments and this and that. I do not need – although actually, I have been given last rites. They don’t call it last rites anymore.
THERAPIST: She’s an alcoholic as well, maybe.
CLIENT: Yeah. She drank. This is like, at this point that was low on the list. It probably was pretty bad if it was the only thing. Anyways, one of the things – and she would disappear for long periods of time. [28:42] And therefore, we wouldn’t know what she was doing. And we, you know, ","P1-N400931":"my mom, when she passed, she started doing this every month or every fortnight or something like that. She, at this point in church she – nearby where Iris had lived had Iris’ meal – it’s a dinner for the homeless or are not necessarily homeless, but are having problems of the ","P1-N400932":"thing that she liked the best. So my mom pays for this. I think that’s really awesome that she does that at the church. So there are things that she does that are really, really wonderful. But to me, I get really cranky, because all this is – I can’t – I’ve got to step ","P1-N400933":"away from this, because it’s too easy for me to get her all upset about it, too. That kind of stuff I think is great. I think it’s wonderful. I think my mother though, on some level, does it to prove that she can do it and she can walk away from some of it any time she wants to.
THERAPIST: MY impression is it feels like a little much at this point. [29:52]
CLIENT: But, you know, my dad is signed up for something on Tuesdays where he goes and spends an hour praying for family members. I asked him. I said, Dad, really? No, you don’t understand. This is the one time I don’t want clients calling me. For me, it’s the one time that I get a ","P1-N400971":"chance to be alone with my thoughts and what I want. It’s dedicated time. I was like, okay. That’s – you’re different. That’s different, you know? I think it’s called adoration. The thing is, I was raised so like, not in this. I know more about other religions than ","P1-N400972":"I do about Catholicism, because my mom and dad were not involved in that church at all or had anything to do with it at all. So I know more about many other religions than the one that I was actually raised in.
THERAPIST: Disparity of cult?
CLIENT: My husband, who is Jesuit educated, okay. But his parents just sort of forgot to baptize him. You know, they didn’t go to church, so it didn’t matter. But when we were getting married, we had to get his parents and a priest and his Catholic, you know, and his Jesuit church to get ","P1-N4009F1":"this form filled out so that we could get married. It was very weird. And it was really funny, because they were kind of arguing at the same time as his parents. I’m pretty sure it was some kind of new-agey thing. Do you have any documentation anywhere? Anything? Any religion at all? Something? ","P1-N4009F2":"Nope. Okay, then we have to fill out these forms.
THERAPIST: I can imagine it would be nice for him to be a godparent.
CLIENT: He is, more or less to his best friend’s son who is now sixteen. But a couple of others kids too he is emotional, spiritual advising and raised a little bit more different. It’s more – especially with Bernard, who’s his best friend, Rowland’s son, who also is ","P1-N400A51":"at the same Jesuit school that, you – oh, yeah. They were here. Oh, my God. Bernard rode in the head the Charles. His friend from Miami came up here and they’re going to do it next year, too. But it’s more about like – less about what is the dogma indoctrinated and more about ","P1-N400A52":"seeing, you know, being able to survive Jesuit school in your own terms and seeing what you take away from it, you know. Which he has been able to tell them about in terms of how to – what filters to apply to what you’re getting from the school and what is appropriate for the real world. ","P1-N400A53":"That kind of stuff, which is kind of awesome. But his school isn’t as strict as it could be.
THERAPIST: (inaudible at 38:08)
CLIENT: About them getting less restrictive about things in terms of the rules of the house kind of thing, you know. For example.
THERAPIST: I get that in the past they would sort of set the rules, and you had to follow them. But they were kind of – they thought it was a good thing if you found ways to kind of get what you wanted within –
CLIENT: Yeah. While still obeying the rules.
THERAPIST: What did it change to now?
CLIENT: Now, a lot of rules don’t exist for certain things, you know. I’m trying to think of a good one for this, and I cannot. [38:37] Oh, here’s a good one. Even when I was over 21, and I was nearby the house, if somebody who was a family member was there with their parents, they ","P1-N400B71":"don’t get to drink. Their parents don’t allow them to drink. Since it’s their house, my dad is – both of them are – the people – they own this house, and they have liability for that. It doesn’t matter. If the parents say so, you still don’t get to do ","P1-N400B72":"that. That is no so much anymore on that. That kind of – part of it’s like I’m – I’m not really sure why it is that I’m annoyed by that.
THERAPIST: I’m sort of wondering whether, in the back of your mind, you’re also thinking of yourself as a parent.
CLIENT: I don’t think of it – especially with my children now, I think that they would still obey my – Like, if I had any – Like, if my rules were stricter, for the most part, they’re okay with that. Although with this dog here they break all kinds of rules or truly drive ","P1-N400BD1":"me crazy. They insist that they’re not feeding her table scraps or doing this or that. And they totally do. It’s like, yeah.
THERAPIST: The dog at their grandparents’?
CLIENT: Yeah. But I don’t think when it comes to things like alcohol. They’d understand that I’m like, no. It’s weird, though. Because as much as they’re like, no drinking in the house, if we were culturally in a place like France, it was like their house. It was total ","P1-N400C11":"lawyer trap concept. Because it’s my house, and therefore it’s my property and I am liable, this is not acceptable. Whereas, if we were in a place that’s like – where it was considered to be acceptable and legally acceptable to drink with parents, then that was a different story. ","P1-N400C12":"Such a weird thing. Of course, you know, they’re both attorneys, so they have a lot of, you know, logical confusion to that. [41:14] But there’s just certain things that really – I’m going to do my best not to drive my mother up the wall. I hope she does the same with me, too. ","P1-N400C13":"So there are people I don’t like her bringing up while I’m around, because they are mean spirited and haven’t changed their stripes, so I don’t really want to hear about how great they are doing. I mean, she’s pretty good about that so far. Once in a while she forgets. ","P1-N400C14":"[42:06] At the end of the day, strong opinions are sort of – they’re allowed, you know. Sometimes it’s frustrating when I realize my mother has lost her strong opinion on certain things.
THERAPIST: Yeah you have to deal with that.
CLIENT: And it isn’t even just like, I realize I was wrong on something. It’s like, it’s more about denying that that wasn’t really happening in the first place.
THERAPIST: When do you go?
CLIENT: A week from today, probably. Depending upon the schedule and stuff. Mostly, Mike’s experiments. Either a week from today or early Thursday, depending.
THERAPIST: We should stop for now. But I hope it’s a good trip.
CLIENT: Thank you. I will let you know more about it not next week, but the week after.