TITLE: Client "M", Session June 18, 2013: Client discusses spouse's addiction and treatments.
DESCRIPTION: Client discusses spouse's addiction and treatments.
CLIENT: I’m probably going to have to work right after that week but I don’t know what day is -
THERAPIST: Okay.
CLIENT: like that yet, so I’ll know more about that too because I can’t really afford to take that much time off. Speaking of time off, I’ve had a lot of time off until this mental (ph) a couple of days ago. Well it’s one of those things where how much I already have a pretty ","P1-N4000F1":"non-heavy work life in terms of physical number of hours. I didn’t realize how much I really, really, really don’t want to work right now. I feel terrible I mean I guess nobody really wants to work per se but how much things were better, how much my sleep was better and all this kind of stuff.
THERAPIST: Yes. So what happened to let me get this right.
CLIENT: I took off on around our anniversary because I had to take the time off super advance in hopes that maybe we’d be able to squeeze in a real vacation. And so the thing is if I don’t ask for it especially in the summertime, six months in advance, whatever -
THERAPIST: You don’t get it.
CLIENT: I don’t get it so it’s better for me just to get it and not need it than [00:01:19]
THERAPIST: Need it.
CLIENT: So that’s why I had the whole summer off. I realize that there’s a whole lot of other stuff going on because Bethany got married and all this other stuff. And I realize that I just do better, which I mean I guess it sounds weird to say that but my pain, my [inaudible at 00:01:39] ","P1-N4001B1":"and a lot of other things. Everybody remarked that I seemed a lot better just in general. [inaudible at 00:01:48] is blah, blah, blah. And you would think if I’m getting four days off a week anyways but taking a week off people thought I looked that much different and not much different. I guess ","P1-N4001B2":"really it is a definite change. So, although I knowing me, of course, I had things I kept busy with so, including getting out of the house, but [00:02:17]
THERAPIST: I imagine you are sort of working harder and pushing yourself harder than you probably often do.
CLIENT: Yes, but when I see it compared to everybody else it doesn’t’ seem like it’s enough, you know what I mean?
THERAPIST: Yes. You mean everybody else who doesn’t have bad arthritis and chronic pain and stuff?
CLIENT: Yes. So it, yes, pretty much. But it definitely helps a lot. One thing that it doesn’t do, though is at least for the moment, I had sort of an appointment which I did something which I’m really not especially proud of at this point. I just certain things related to my husband’s ","P1-N400231":"addiction just sort of just really pushing buttons with me and I’m just really upset. And I sort of I said something kind of really mean to him that I felt really bad about so. Not just mean, said something mean, but actually did something that I’m diametrically opposed to and I’m ","P1-N400232":"sure why in the world I did it other than just being frustrated.
THERAPIST: Was it that bad? [00:03:45]
CLIENT: Yes. So at some point just I was struggling with him, trying to get him to work, trying to get him to do this; he says oh yes, well the cell’s down and it was just felt like one excuse after another as to why he wasn’t working whatever. And I just felt like along with everything ","P1-N400271":"else and having trouble being sober and this and that and me finding out the nature of what he’s doing and this and that. I just [00:04:09]
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:04:09] nature of acting out or the ?
CLIENT: He had the nature, a little bit of the nature of acting out thing and I said something along the lines of why do you think that I’m not turning you into the police again? Is there a really good valid reason why I shouldn’t be doing this because this is starting to really bother me. ","P1-N4002B1":"It’s bothered me for a long time but I would not normally say it that way or even really necessarily intend to do it that way. And it wasn’t like a threat like you’d better I don’t even know what it was. It wasn’t only a you-stop-now kind of thing or anything like that. ","P1-N4002B2":"It was why is it [inaudible]?
THERAPIST: It’s a feeling how to me you describe is of you being exasperated. Just kind of overwhelmed, had it up to here, not sure what to do or say and also kind of angry. [00:05:04]
CLIENT: Definitely squibbed (ph) out because a lot of it is people who are very, very young, so.
THERAPIST: How young?
CLIENT: Well the way the thing happened the night of our anniversary he was getting subscription posts to something. But in theory it’s not technically pornography but there are girls that are underage in their underwear, things like that, that I’m sure that that’s at least what ","P1-N400331":"I could it’s very hard for me to tell because it’s behind a wall of things but when I picked up his phone to make sure we were on the right course, that’s what -
THERAPIST: Right.
CLIENT: so, I mean, 15 I guess, 16 probably. I mean I don’t know. If the perception is reality then I don’t know if they really are older and pretend to be younger or what. It’s definitely something where they’re doing their best to screen people, to make sure that whatever ","P1-N400371":"it is. I don’t know.
THERAPIST: I’m confused. To screen ?
CLIENT: To make sure that people if I saw something and if I remember the name of the thing and I Googled it, it just gives me a wall of name password please. That’s it.
THERAPIST: Okay, got it.
CLIENT: But from what I understand from just briefly looking down to see his messages that were popping up on the thing, that’s what I get. But it could just be also that that’s the name of the thing but it’s not really it really is something more than that, it could be it’s ","P1-N4003F1":"very hard to tell. And so, I don’t know. Like I said it’s just, it’s very upsetting, it’s very I feel like on some level that I do want to somehow protect myself from this kind of stuff because I’m afraid of something like that happening to him and driving me down with ","P1-N4003F2":"it because I have valid reasons to believe this. [00:07:00]
THERAPIST: Do you mean him getting arrested -
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: and you getting implicated?
CLIENT: Implicated or at least deeply humiliated or grilled or having to have a conversation with another person about this at all. It’s very distressing.
THERAPIST: But more or less how you lost your job in defense (ph), right?
CLIENT: Yes. I don’t really at this point really totally know what exactly went down. It could have been, be for underage, it could have just been misuse of resources. I know what [inaudible at 00:07:38]. I didn’t want to I was so, at the time I was so upset and so humiliated and it was ","P1-N4004B1":"so new in my world I didn’t ask any questions because I just wanted to -
THERAPIST: Yes, in that case I know it wasn’t necessarily underage.
CLIENT: I don’t know, it could’ve been.
THERAPIST: Right, it was just that it was on a computer where that could be monitored or something.
CLIENT: Yes. So and so it was, I don’t know. It’s it is, yes, it’s worrisome. It’s very worrisome. I but yes, I mentioned it to him. We had a very, very long conversation, almost all of us, about how basically just I mean I am emotionally feeling very, I don’t know ","P1-N400531":"what to say. It’s not even the word numb isn’t quite the word. It’s exasperated maybe, I don’t know. It’s just so distressing. And especially because of the fact that he has such little support from the people around him. He had mentioned to his father a couple weekends ","P1-N400532":"because we had talked about this in the past. He brought it up this time, that which is strange because you know it doesn’t that maybe something chemical might be very helpful, like in terms of chemical caustration (ph) see if that could help with this or that. His dad a little bit tried to ","P1-N400533":"talk him out of it. He said [inaudible at 00:09:53]. This is, this is, no I don’t think that’s what it is. I think this is [inaudible] through the light bulb that’s going to help. [00:10:02]
THERAPIST: He did that?
CLIENT: No he didn’t. He is back in Cincinnati and the person he was seeing pretty much said that he has all the other tools; the only way that there’s really going to be any progress is if he went to one of those places that have those various different inpatient things. He felt like they ","P1-N4005B1":"had been doing this for a decade and not gotten anywhere with any of this so they had to find some way to break down the wall because for an hour, he can forget anything. He can talk about something else or forget I can’t even get him to remember what he went to the dermatologist for by the ","P1-N4005B2":"time he gets in the office. Not that I have these problems too sometimes but you know what I do? If I have to I will literally write it on my arm so I don’t forget. I have done that.
THERAPIST: Well the other thing is [inaudible] the only other source of backup that you could have?
CLIENT: Yes, maybe.
THERAPIST: Maybe. And you’re the help?
CLIENT: I know he doesn’t have it either. If I needed it he wouldn’t be there. I know that he thinks he is. He really is completely I don’t believe he’s lying. He thinks he’s doing what’s right. But it seems I’m two days ago Mike had to call his Dad to find ","P1-N400691":"out the phone number for his brother who’s on the run from the law. So on some level I don’t necessarily know if that has made him so he’s thinking well at least he’s not on crack or something like that, or if he’s just in disbelief for everything. I don’t know. [00:17:22]
THERAPIST: Or Mike.
CLIENT: Or Mike. But the thing, they weren’t like that. They were bad to him but they weren’t, they didn’t have that, it wasn’t that severe. But at least his dad is somewhat coming around now that because he’s, his dad needs something to talk about and it has to be ","P1-N4007B1":"something that he can understand and in his world understands. And so where he is nobody’s heard of [inaudible at 00:25:20], it’s not a big deal. He’s [inaudible] in the tech industry; nobody’s freaking heard of them. We were the showstopper of the Microsoft, the robotics people ","P1-N4007B2":"that they had on, I don’t know if you saw the keynote or not, those are my peeps at COU (ph) for AI stuff, okay? They were a part of the Yale keynote. That’s it. That’s not no one’s ever heard of it but Yale’s okay. Yale is a big you would’ve thought he went from ","P1-N4007B3":"a state school and changed over. [00:25:43]
THERAPIST: [inaudible at 00:26:01] he’ll get less.
CLIENT: Yes, much less. We need to do something to make them want to have a relationship with him. Right now he can tell the other people in the gym and the other people he works with that his son’s at Yale, I guess, I don’t know. [00:26:21]
THERAPIST: I wonder if, I mean, those questions you have, furious with them but I wonder if you’re also, I think also probably pretty damned pissed at Mike however fairly or unfairly. But that is much harder for you to be angry with him.
CLIENT: I am. I know that I am. It is harder for me to be angry for him, with him because -
THERAPIST: I mean I don’t want you think of it of what’s bound him is addiction and disease, which is true.
CLIENT: Yes.
THERAPIST: You must be really pissed I mean this is really f***king up your lives in pretty major ways in terms of [00:27:23]
CLIENT: How can you be angry with someone who seems so darned contrite every single time?
THERAPIST: You tell me. I mean -
CLIENT: I mean it’s very hard.
THERAPIST: But I think you are.
CLIENT: I am.
THERAPIST: I mean it’s one thing to sort of express the anger at him and then all the sudden he looks like he’s going to crumble and feels terrible about himself. It’s another thing to sort of [inaudible at 00:27:47] to be pissed for what he’s doing to your life.
CLIENT: Yes. I completely am. It’s easier for me to be angry with the symptoms than the actual overall core problem because the symptoms are to me more day to day things. He’s more withdrawn, he has a lot more social anxiety, it’s screwed him up from being ambitious, I have to worry ","P1-N400991":"about him crossing the street occasionally. That kind of stuff. It’s easier those things are more, more worried about the effects, than the actual disease, which I’m really upset about. I mean honestly, I already have a lot of emotional hang-ups already. And it’s not, it’s ","P1-N400992":"not exactly like knowing that my husband likes women that are very, very young is not exactly making it that much easier. It doesn’t. [00:28:48]
THERAPIST: Well he’s just looking at other women and girls, period.
CLIENT: Yes. Well, I don’t know maybe I’m just -
THERAPIST: Doesn’t it bother you the same way?
CLIENT: Maybe I’m just intellectualizing. I mean, I am. It does bother me. It does bother me a lot. The biggest thing that gives me terror is that every day the gap gets bigger. His preference [inaudible at 00:29:37] and my gap gets bigger and bigger and bigger and it’s terrifying; it’s ","P1-N400A31":"really terrifying. And I have yelled at him about the fact that I gave him the best years of my life. I don’t mean to but I do. The years when basically when everybody I had the most to offer and everybody wanted to either be me or be with me, I gave to him and silently took all of this. And ","P1-N400A32":"I feel like I’m treated really poorly. And that is something that I’ve, I mean I told him and I definitely do feel it. I felt like my best years were over for a long time. Of course I felt that when I turned over 19. So, yes. We have a niece the same age of those girls. We’ve been ","P1-N400A33":"married longer than some of those girls have been alive. That’s really f***ked up. That’s really f***ked up. [00:31:03]
THERAPIST: I think a lot of this under your thing highlights how very much on your own you are with this and you don’t really have Mike with you, you don’t have his family, and you can’t really talk to your friends about it either. [00:34:11]
CLIENT: No. I mean I can talk to them at least about my own most of the time, though, because of the fact that this is kind of who I am, I make fun of the fact that I have an abnormal obsession with being young. Not actually though, I’m starting to realize it’s actually not all that abnormal ","P1-N400AD1":"now that I’m spending more time talking to women my age. I just think that it wasn’t like that 10 years ago, though. I started doing retinal treatments and things like that 21, 22 years old and justify it because I have fair skin. But really what I wanted to do was make sure that I never ","P1-N400AD2":"got wrinkles. I mean people even make jokes about the fact that my dog doesn’t act like she’s 12 years old; she acts like a puppy. The whole family is obsessed with youthfulness. [00:35:01]
THERAPIST: Would you be doing it sort of for Mike, for you? I mean I’m unclear whether it goes along -
CLIENT: Me.
THERAPIST: with the age thing or whether [inaudible at 00:36:51] -
CLIENT: Partially the age thing but everything.
THERAPIST: you feel like yourself or ?
CLIENT: Everything. I hate, hate the way I feel, the way I look. I hate the fact that every time I walk by a mirror I actually get startled because I don’t recognize myself. Most people when they say they’re exaggerating, I’m not kidding. I hate the fact that I have days and days and ","P1-N400BD1":"days of everything written of what I’ve eaten and what is measured and how many grams it is and this and that and how much I’ve walked and I mean where this thing’s promised a year now, and nothing.
THERAPIST: Is that because of medications and things that determine metabolism [00:37:38]
CLIENT: Probably.
THERAPIST: it just [inaudible at 00:37:45]?
CLIENT: It’s likely work. I mean I had thyroid problems to begin with and all that other stuff, yes. Pretty much. Yes, I’ve actually I mean I lost quite a bit of weight just before I moved here and I gained it all back and then some. Haven’t really changed too much in the [inaudible ","P1-N400C51":"at 00:38:01] kind of thing. I’m not going out to each much; I’m not doing all that stuff. I know exactly what I’m eating. It’s pissing me off because I’m monitoring it. I’m not just going through the perception and so at this point the only choice that I feel that ","P1-N400C52":"I have is to find somebody who’s going to figure out what’s going on and fix it.
THERAPIST: Well you were still pretty desperate.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean I wasn’t doubling it or anything. I know better than that.
THERAPIST: Yes, and pretty helpless.
CLIENT: Yes. I mean I had a blood test. They mailed them to me. It said there’s still problems. It doesn’t feel like it’s the right thing. It’s just frustrating. So, I don’t know. I feel like I don’t know what to do to prove to the people so I just figure that I’m ","P1-N400CF1":"going to get myself over to this thing and maybe they’ll be able to tell me what’s going on. I mean they already know I have lots of digestive problems. I mean I walked around with appendicitis for months. I no longer can absorb vitamin B-12 in my body at all unless I get injections because ","P1-N400CF2":"my immune system tells the part of my stomach that allows you to absorb that so I can take all the pills in the world and it doesn’t work. I’m sure there’s all kinds of stuff that may very well be lurking around like that but I just don’t know. Maybe I can’t [inaudible ","P1-N400CF3":"at 00:40:19] take something because my immune system would kill that organ too.
THERAPIST: We should stop.
CLIENT: Okay. I will see you next week?
THERAPIST: Next week, yes. [00:42:17]